Irish May Be Most Fed But  They Are Not The Best Fed,  Says Lecturer On Nutrition  By  DR. DAVID NOWLAN  Government and the absentee  landlords could never have come to  fruition.   Between 1785 and 1841 there was  an unprecedented population  explosion in Ireland. The population  increased from three millions to over  eight millions-an explosion that  would have been impossible to sustain  had the potato not been available at  that time to feed the people. A  vicious circle was started in which  more potatoes were required to  support more and more peopfe and  more prolific varieties of potato were  introduced. But these newer varieties  were more susceptible to disease and  consequently the stage was set for the  potato famines.  After the famines, the whole  pattern of fertility changed again and  by the 1880s agricultural reform had  been effected and, said Dr. Doyle, the  diet of the general population had  greatly improved. But poverty was  still widespread, especially in the  cities. By 1914 26,000 families lived  in 5,000 tenement houses in Dublin.  Great strides had been made since  the foundation of the State, said Dr.  Doyle, and all could be justly proud  of the improvement in general  standards of living and in the  reduction of poverty. But he warned  against complacency:  It is obvious  to anybody who travels our towns  and countryside that many families  even today fall below the bare  subsistence existence.   Yet in 1974, he went on, no person  or agency in the State is actually  aware of our true nutritional status.  Dr. Doyle urged a repetition of the   magnificent and significant   nutrition survey conducted by the  Department of Health in 1948. That  survey (which included very detailed  and specific nutritional data) had  shown that the total per capita calorie  intake was 2,800 a day. More recent  figures relseased by the O.E.C.D. and  the World Health Organisation show  that Ireland now has an average per  capita calorie intake of 3,473 a  day-one of the highest in the world.  The Irish are probably still the  world's largest consumers of  potatoes: they consume 124 metric  tons per thousand of the population,  compared with, for instance, 98 per  thousand in France, 83 in Denmark  f  mg mg and 14 in JaPan- And while the Irish  vi GOli   XJ consume   almost   double  the  milk  products recorded for any other  country, the consumption of fruit,  fish and vegetable oils in Ireland is  low. By contrast, the consumption of  refined sugars is higher in Ireland than  THE IRISH may be the most fed  people in the world, but they are not  the best fed. This was made clear in  the Royal College of Surgeons,  Dublin, on Saturday night, when Dr.  J. Stephen Doyle called for the  development of a national nutrition  policy.  Dr. Doyle, a consultant in the  Richmond Hospital, Dublin, was  delivering his presidential address to  the Biological Society of the R.C.S.I.  and, in a comprehensive historical  review of nutrition in Ireland, he  managed to cast considerable doubts  on the contribution made by the  potato to this country's history.  Prior to the introduction of the  potato in the late 16th or early 17th  century, the Irish, Dr. Doyle said,  were very well fed on a most varied  diet of cereals, fruits,vegetables, milk  and milk products, meats and  poultry. The main source of  sweetening was honey, and from this  came also the mead which was a  prominent liquor. But more prevalent  was ale, made from barley, and wine  was imported from the Continent.  The potato almost certainly came  into Ireland by way of this European  trade and not, as has traditionally  been accepted, through its  importation by Sir Walter Raleigh  (who probably never met the  common potato, although he may  have brought sweet potatoes to  Youghal from either Virginia or the  Azores).  Whatever its means of entry to the  Irish agronomy, Dr. Doyle endorsed  the view put forward by Dr. A. T.  Lucas when he said that the  introduction of the potato was  an  ethnographical disaster leading to a  fearfully over-simplified existence for  a very considerable fraction of the  population with the consequent  disappearance of many of the  activities associated with older  methods of food production and a  quite abnormal truncation of many  aspects of Irish rural life in the 18th  and 19th centuries.  As Dr. Doyle  himslef put it:  Without this root  vegetable, Solanum tuberosum, the  Machievellian activities of the London  ?L   F Challenge  To  The National A -jucion for Irish  Freedom has this date sent the  following letter to Hugh L. Carey,  Governor-elect of the State of New  York.  elsewhere. 'These figures,  said Dr.  Doyle,    indicate   that   there   is a  complete lack of a national nutrition  policy at this time in our country.    INCREASED OBESITY   He argued that, in contrast with  the 19th century, the Irish are now  suffering from over-nutrition, which  he defined as  food intake exceeding  calorie expenditure leading to  increased obesity.  As a result, and in  common with other communities, the  Irish are now suffering an epidemic of  heart and blood vessel disease. 'The  combination of this immediate  problem with the closely associated  problem of fibre-depleted diets is one  which must be tackled and tackled  urgently by our Department of  Health,  said Dr. Doyle.  He proposed the urgent setting-up  of a national nutrition council on  which would be represented animal  and human nutritionists, dieticians,  doctors and both the producers and  consumers of foodstuffs. Dr. Doyle  noted that positive action had solved  earlier medical problems: the  establishment of fever hospitals had  controlled the epidemic diseases of  typhus and cholera, and more  recently tuberculosis had been almost  completely eradicated.  We must now  turn to the latest cause of epidemics  in our midst and treat this problem as  radically as previously,  he said.  He thought it unfortunate that  there was  a grave shortage of troops  to fight this particular war  only 22  full-time dieticians are employed by  hospitals or local authorities, he  pointed out.  I would suggest that it  is time that Irish lives were saved by  enabling dieticians to educate our  people,  said Dr. Doyle, adding that a  national nutrition policy would not  only save lives but would also save  money-by saving bed-days in Irish  hospitals.  He concluded: 'The next decade is  critical in the nutritional status of the  Irish and positive action must be  taken by the Government to prevent  further disasters. Now is the time to  give example to our modern  communities and change the Irish  from being the greatest calorie  consumers to being the best fed  people in the world.   SPECTACULAR ADVOCACY  Dr. Doyle was followed by Mr.  Denis Burkitt, the internationally-known Irish surgeon, who  delivered what can only be described  as a spectacular advocacy of the need  to get more fibre into the average  diet. Man, he said, might well eat a  diet that was nutritionally adequate  but his concern was with the  non-nutritional element of that diet.  Clark Defends  Baltimore Four  Former United States Attorney  General Ramsey Clark has joined the  Irish Lawyers Defense Committee and  is expected to argue the case of the  Baltimore Four in the Federal Court  Baltimore on November 11,1974.  The  Four,  Michale Larkin, Jim  Conlon, Frank McMahon, and Harry  Hillick were given six (6) years in  the Federal Penitentiary on July 8,  1974, by Judge Edward Northrop, Jr.  following their conviction for  Violating the Gun Control Act of  1968. The circumstances surrounding  the conviction indicated that U.S.  Government Agents had apprehended  a large shipment of arms believed  bound to the I.R.A. in Northern  Ireland.  Since their incarceration, the four  men have been subjected to unusually  harsh treatment. They have been  separated, kept in solitary  confinement for long periods and  assigned to maximum security prisons  far removed from their families and  friends.  Jim Conlon, a native of Belfast,  married and with four (4) small  children has been sent to  Leavenworth, Kansas, some 1,500  miles from his home in Queens. His  family lacks the prohibitive financial  resources needed to visit him there.  Similarly, Frank McMahon, who is  in Atlanta, Georgia, and Harry  Hillick, who is in Terre Haute,  Indiana, have been effectively  deprived of their visitation rights by  the long distances that separate them  from their relatives. Mr. McMahon's  only sister in the U.S. is a nun living  in the outskirts of Philadelphia, while  He attributed the increase in Western  societies of a large number of diseases  to the fact that Western diets were  seriously deficient in fibre, and drew  a correlation between the size and  softness of the stool with the absence  of such conditions as piles, hiatus  hernia, gall-bladder disease,  inflamation and cancer of the large  bowel, appendicitis and increased  serum cholesterol.  Paradoxically, perhaps, the more  fibrous the food the softer the stool.   What goes in hard comes out soft,   said Mr. Burkitt,  and what goes in  soft comes out hard.  This might be  why, in Africa, where the fibre  content of the diet is high, the  conditions listed were practically  non-existent. More money was now  spent in one year removing gall  bladders from North Americans than  on total health care in all of Africa,  he said.  Mr. Burkitt was followed by Dr.  Brendan   Hensey,  secretary  of the  Continued on Page 17  Mr. Hillick's brothers and sisters live  in Queens and Nassau Counties in  New York.  Michael Larkin, the only native  U.S. bom of the Four, is in  Lewisburg, Pennsylvania where he has  been repeatedly questioned about his  Irish Activities and where on at least  one occasion he has been the subject1  of camera surveillance from the  roof-top of an adjoining building in  the prison complex.  But the most distrubing feature of  their confinement so far has. been  their repeated visits from U.S.  Government Treasury Agents. These  agents, some of whom participated in  their actual trial and sat at the  prosecutors table, have visited some  or all of the Four at different times in  an effort to get them to discuss  details of the incidents which led to  their convictions. The men never  received any notice in advance of  their coming and have never been  given an opportunity to have counsel  present during the interview.  In one instance, Jim Conlon had a  visit from two agents who told him  for the first time that he was to be  deported to Belfast but, they  indicated, they would prevent this, if  he would only talk to the Attorney  General. Two (2) days following their  visit, he received a Notice of  Commencement of Deportation  proceedings  to Belfast  from the  Department of Immigration and  Naturalization. It has been surmised  that both agencies are combining  their functions to  pressure  Mr.  Conlon to  talkwith  the Attorney  General.  The same two (2) agents who  visited Mr. Conlon in Leavenworth  also visited Mr. McMahon in Atlanta  and in the past week, Mr. Hillick has  likewise been informed of  Deportation proceedings.  All of the above have prompted the  bringing of a motion for review of  sentence before Judge Northrop on  the ground that his function in  determining punishment has been  usurped by the punitive actions of  Government Agencies, the Bureau of  Prisons and the Attorney Generals  Office who have, by these actions,  enlarged upon the sentence of the  Court.  Mr. Clark has long been an  Advocate of Federal Prison Reform  and is no stranger to the Irish  American scene. A Native of Texas,  he gave repeated counsel to the  attorneys for the Fort Worth Five  during their fight for the release of  the men from Tarrant County Jail  and he was defense counsel along  with Paul O'Dwyer on the Berrigan  case in Pennsylvania.   ?  en  x  m  3  35  x  -o  m  O  r-  m     s  CD  3  cr  CD  G gt;  We congratulate you on your  outstanding victory this past week. In  view of your positions now as head of  the Democratic Party in the second  most populous state in the nation, as  well as being an individual now being  talked about openly as a possible  national candidate in 1976, we urge  that you have the question of  Northern Ireland brought before the  mid-term Democratic Party  Convention in Kansas City this  December.  We would urge that the Democratic  Party be put on record as supporting  the full implementation of civil rights  for the people in the North of  Ireland, As the minimum steps in this  direction, this would require that the  Convention support the following  demands as voiced by the Northern  Ireland Civil Rights Association:  Immediate end to internment  Repeal, in total, of the Emergency  Provisions Act  The withdrawal of troops to  barracks pending their complete  withdrawal  We would expect that these  legitimate demands will gain the  support of all people who believe in  the cause of elementary justice.  Statements of concern by individuals  are no longer enough. It must be the  stated policy of the Democratic Party  to pursue these basic demands.  WEB  OFFSET  uonQuord  offset printers  inc.  One Evans Terminal Hillside, New Jersey  201-355-1100  Complete Composition, Paste-Up,  Camera, Stripping and Platemaking facilities  CIRCULARS    MAGAZINES  NEWSPAPERS   CATALOGUES  
        