The Irish People  August 9 - August 15, 2003  The Irish People  363 SEVENTH AVENUE, SUITE 405  NEW YORK, NY 10001  OPINION  IRISH SIDE HOLD KEY TO COLLUSION  EXPOSURE  The family of Peter Kelly has declared themselves less than impressed with the  belated decision of the PSNI to re-open the investigation into the nationalist councilor's 1974 murder.  And while that's hardly surprising, it docs go to show that despite recent  reforms, nationalists still don't trust the PSNI to delve impartially into its own murky  past.  In fact, Chief Constable Hugh Orde hardly boosted confidence in his force  when lie suggested that his officers couldn't  police the past . But is that really  hecause of an understandahle lack of resources or because the force wants to let its  own sleeping dogs of war lie?  If it's the latter, then that just won't wash with nationalists.  Those victims of collusion between the state forces and the loyalist paramilitaries have a right to know who pulled the trigger and who, in the back offices of  RUC barracks across the North, pulled the file.  Any attempt to brush the stale's sordid pasl under the carpet will only result in  greater alienation from the PSNI and make the work of building an accountable  police service more difficult.  And yet, the stand-off between families whether of the hundreds of  Catholics murdered by loyalist death-squads 'run' by Special Branch, or the victims  of stale forces' killings could be resolved by resolute action from the Irish  Government.  At present, nationalist victims of collusion have to trudge a weary path through  the European courts in their search for justice. For a few, there might be an independent inquiry though even that development can be stymied by the British as the  Bloody Sunday Inquiry shows but for the vast majority, the prospect of exposing  the (mill is an unlikely one indeed. After all, when individuals, often of limited  means, are pitted against the British government, might not right is likely to win out.  And Unit's where the Irish Government comes in.  Of course, almost all the victims of collusion in the Six Counties are Irish citizens. And thai gives the Irish Government a unique standing in law from which to  put right this monumental abuse. In fact, it's more than that. It places an onerous  duly on the Irish Government to act; lo speak for those who have been silenced in  Britain's Dirty War.  livery time a family like the Kellys or the Finucanes or the Nelsons or hundreds  of other equally bewildered victims appear on our TV screens lo tell of their lonely  struggle lor justice, the Irish Government should hang its head in shame.  ' 'here is no reason why these brutalized Irish citizens should have to shoulder  this burden unaided. They are citizens of a sovereign country and it's way past time  the government of that country stood up for its people.  In recent months, faced with the unilateral decision of the British Government  to close down the political institutions here, the Irish Government has vowed to act  as the defender of nationalist rights.  Northern nationalists who have always believed that being abandoned by  Dublin literally goes with the territory will take that pledge with a pinch of salt.  However, if the Irish Government were to take firm action now on collusion, it  would go a long way to easing nationalist fears as wc face into another crisis in the  peace process.  From lrelandehck.com  The Irish People  363 Seventh Avenue  New York, NY 10001  Telephone: (212)736-1916  Advertising Dept. fax: (212) 279-1916  Editorial Dept e-mail: irishpeoplepaper aol.com  Website: http://www.inac.org/irishpeople  The Irish People (ISSN 0888-3556 USPS 070-770) is published week  ly every Saturday, except for the first week of January and the second  week of August, for  35.00 per year by the Irish People Inc., 363 7th  Ave.,  405, New York, NY 10001. Periodicals Postage Paid at 8th  Ave. Post Office, New York, NY. Postmaster: send address changes to:  The Irish People, 363 7th Avenue.  405, New York, NY 10001.  Oliver Kearney  Remembered  By Gerry Coleman  Oliver Kearney was laid to rest  today, July 28, 2003, in the north of  Ireland. Rest was uncharacteristic of  the man.  His life was about inventing  and re-inventing ways to struggle  against injustice and he unerringly  followed his principles.  For Americans who value justice and human rights, he is most  associated with the MacBride  Principles campaign, which uses the  pressure of US state and local government stock holdings to influence  corporate employers doing business  in the north to apply a set of nine  fair employment standards applicable to the Six-Counties developed  by Sean MacBride and others. But  he came to it from inside the north-  cm bureaucracy and business ethos,  where he began to make public how  the establishment worked to discriminate against Catholics. He  founded the Fair Employment Trust,  which pretty much were himself  and an old typewriter in the kitchen  of his Antrim home. He wouldn't  say he was a one man show, but he  was.  And he was a dangerous man.  He wrote the truth and he knew the  truth. A successful, career executive  in the N.I. Vintners' Association, he  began to expose the whole evil system of discrimination in the north  and how it worked. He was causing  damage. Oliver came under great  pressure from above to stop. As a  dedicated family man and father of  live, some of that pressure must  have come was from himself.  At this time, he was sought out  to lobby for a MacBride Principle  bill that was facing a legislative  fight in the States. Here he was, a  successful Catholic business executive, an exception to the rule, putting it on the line for the principle of  it.  He did almost everything for  the principle of it.  After that brief trip to America,  he was fired and became essentially  un-hirablc. When he had to tell his  wife, Brigid, I know it broke his  heart.  It didn't break her heart, nor  the Kearney family's love and  resolve. They would make do and  Oliver Kearney pretty much  became a full time warrior for  Equality.  He came into the MacBride  fight when it was hardest, after the  early, dcmographically friendly  Irish Catholic eastern states had  passed legislation. Nevertheless, the  campaign slugged its way through  the states with Oliver's help.  And it wasn't only MacBride,  at the same time he took on the US  sponsored  International  Fund  for  Ireland, which was disgracefully  entangled in the same discriminatory bureaucracy. Most of the  research that exposed its overt lack  of justice for those that needed it the  most came from Oliver. Queens  University, which was receiving US  funds, was pilloried by Oliver for  the anti-Catholic makeup of its faculty in an institution that was over  50  Catholic. Most departments  had no Catholic professors although  Catholics were well represented in  the cleaning staff.  When MacBride had run it's  course, Oliver hadn't. He delineated  a way to go through the same states  again with new, more punitive  MacBride legislation. They were  called  contact compliance bills   and they were killers. A corporate  employer in the north of Ireland not  adhering to the MacBride Principles  for Fair Employment was, by  statute, barred from doing business  with or otherwise penalized by  states and municipalities with a   contract compliance bill.  It was  comply with MacBride or no contract. Millions, even billions, were  now at stake.  So it was back to New York  State, New York City, Boston,  Massachusetts, Connecticut, New  Jersey, etc. with new legislative initiatives, another round of bringing  out Britain's dirty laundry of anti-  Catholic discrimination. The Brits  went mad. They even staffed a special office in Washington, D.C. just  to fight MacBride. But even contract compliance would run it's  course.  Not Oliver.  With his great friend, Fr. Des  Wilson, he founded  Equality ,  which focused primarily in organizing awareness and action among the  discriminated in the north of  Ireland. Northern Bank was made to  reel from Equality's wrath, as this  discriminatory  institution's Bank  Notes were deemed not acceptable  and handed back like dead mice at  monetary exchanges and banks by  the thousands to be replaced by   acceptable currency ; it caused a  wonderful ruckus.  Oliver seemed to ignore the  fact that he had inoperable throat  cancer for well over ten years during his personal fight for justice for  other people. Perhaps he willed it  away. I think he scared it into remission.  There were other schemes to  fight the apartheid system he so  hated, but his grandchildren would  occupy his last years. When his  beloved wife Brigid passed away  two years ago, you knew that  Oliver's heart was with her. Still, I  don't think he went easy.  Mostly what I remember is the  way Oliver fought to win, but never  for the sake of winning. So many  times in battling the International  Fund for Ireland or for MacBride  bills, it seemed that compromising a  bit here, a bit there, would get our  victory. Most of us mortals wanted  to get that bill signed after sometimes years of hard lobbying. Never  did he budge on these points. He  could be fierce on this. There are  NINE MacBride principles, not  eight or different ones for different  bills. He knew that to rewrite one  was to start the unraveling of the  whole. It was the principle of the  thing and it mattered to Oliver how  you fought, why you fought, and  that you know what you were fighting. To fight alongside Oliver was a  core, intense experience.  He could wither an ambassador with a phrase or make an ordinary person feci like a million, turn  around a hostile crowd with his  words and smile or chastise an audience so cleverly that even the barbs  felt good.  He was the most principled,  loving and fierce man I ever knew.  
        