Page 16  The Irish People  August 9 - August 15. 2003  www.sinnfein.ie  i   web'  h fit Hi lt;  m H Sii     V n nth*He in South Betfe I  (    -. f Whip C llr, Sue Ram*: minced that m the  nc new party web *he there wc  iO0 hhx  IdwkJc. Notably, the source of the large.' n . m  sarch t fhe BBr  13th Annual Irish Picnic  At the Shore  SATURDAY, AUGUST 16TH  12:00 - 5:00 pm  V.F.W. Post  8867  373 Adamston Road, Brick, NJ  (rain or shine - large covered pavilion)  Entertainment  Willie Lynch and his band  Hamburgers, Hotdogs, Salads, Corn on the Cob, Beer,  Soda, Coffee/Tea, Watermelon and more  Sponsored by Jersey Shore Irish Northern Aid  For information, tickets or directions call Mary Lou at 732-295-5471  Tickets SjJto  Senior citizens S15  kids under 12 free  Leading Civil Rights  campaigner dies  The funeral of leading civil rights campaigner Oliver Kearney took place from his  Dungannon home on Monday 28 July.  Kearney, who died following a long illness  on Thursday 24 July, was buried after Requiem  Mass in St Malachy's Church, Edendork.  Kearney fought for many causes during his  eventful life, but he will be best remembered as a  Iriving force behind the implementation of the  fair employment MacBride Principles in the Six  Counties. He was sacked from his job at the  Licensed Vintners Federation following a television interview where he spoke promoting the  MacBride Principles.  His dedication was eventually rewarded  when he was presented with the Scan MacBride  Humanitarian Award.  As an activist, Oliver was both fearless and  tireless, and his boundless determination saw him  rise to become one of the most influential speakers of his generation.  In 1991, as General Secretary of the Equality  organisation, he took on a new light against the  Northern Bank. The Six County-based bank was  cited by Equality campaigners over its employ  ment practices, which discriminated against  Catholics.  Kearney was also a spokesperson for the  Roisin McAliskcy Justice Group, campaigning to  have the pregnant woman released from an  English jail.  Four years later he graduated from Queen's  University with a Master of Social Studies  Degree in Irish Studies.  Last October, he spoke out against the arrest  of his son Ciaran over the Stormont spy ring fiasco.  Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams expressed  his sympathy to the Kearney family on the death  of Oliver describing him as a  tireless campaigner against discrimination and inequality.   Oliver was a tireless campaigner against  discrimination and inequality, and along with his  late wife Brigid will be remembered for their  efforts across the United States to see the  MacBride Principles on fair employment adopted .   On behalf of Sinn Fein I would send my  condolences to the Kearney family at this sad  New faces step in  as dual mandate ends  BY JOANNE CORCORAN  As the new dual mandate law kicks in  throughout the 26 Counties, Sinn Fein has been  selecting an impressive bunch of new candidates  to step into existing council scats. The four Sinn  Fein TDs who hold local authority seats are  affected by the new legislation.  On Sunday, Kerry Sinn Fein selected  Toircasa Ni Fhcaraiosa, daughter of Martin  Ferris, to replace her father on Kerry County  Council. Toircasa studied in UL and received an  Honors Degree in Law last month. She said she  was very proud to have been selected and even  prouder to be a member of a party with the  courage and foresight to select a young female  candidate. She said that, at 23 years of age, she  will be one of only two women on Kerry County  Council, which sends a strong political message  to the people of Kerry.   The fact that you, the members of Sinn  Fein, who have been demonized and persecuted  so much over the last 30 years, have selected me,  a person who joined Sinn Fein at the age of 16  when it was certainly easier and more popular,  says a lot about your dedication to the cause of  Sinn Fein,  said Toireasa.  This seat never  belonged to my father and it will not belong to  me. It belongs to the people and that will never  change.   She added:  Sinn Fein can help reinstall faith  amongst my peers in the political system. This  government and the governments of the past have  failed our young people, with their cozy-cartels  and their politics of brown envelopes, corruption,  and deception.   Following this trend of young candidates,  27-year-old Tomas Sharkey has been selected as  replacement for Arthur Morgan on Louth County  Council.  Addressing  the  convention,  Arthur      Arthur Morgan congratulates Tomas  Sharkey after his selection by Louth Sinn Fein  to replace the TD on Louth County Council  Morgan said:  I am amazed that four years have  passed since I was elected to the Council, it seems  more like 19 or 20. At times I felt like I was  ploughing a lonely furrow. However I am convinced that after next year's elections my replacement will be part of a strong Sinn Fein team.   Tomas, from Kilkerley, is a secondary  school teacher of Irish and history and was active  in student politics during his time in Queen's  University and Maynooth College. He thanked  the convention for selecting him, and added:  I  hope I can be as effective a councilor as Arthur  has been. If they thought he was a difficult customer, wait 'til they meet me    Louth was busy with conventions last week,  selecting four new candidates for the South Louth  area for next year's local elections.  Mathew Coogan and Imelda Munster were  selected to stand for Drogheda Borough Council  and for Louth County Council. Dom Wilton was  selected to run for Drogheda Borough Council  while Tom Cunningham joins the Louth County  Council ticket.  The Voice of Irish Republicanism in America  
        