  BY SEAMUS BOYLE   DURING AN exhausting three-day  trip to Britain two weeks ago Owen  Carron, MP, visited five prisons where  Irish republican prisoners are incarcerated: Leicester, Albany, Parkhurst, Hull and Wakefield. Carron  arrived in Birmingham on Monday,  February 22nd, and was met at the  airport by Eddie Caughey of Birmingham Sinn Fein.  At Leicester jail Carron, after establishing his identity to prison officials, was taken  across a courtyard to the Special Security  Block (SSB), 'a prison within a prison', in  which, behind heavy security, were housed  six republicans. He met Brendan Dowd from  Tralee, who is serving life after his arrest in  Liverpool, and who has completed five  years.   Alt the time,  said Carron,  as well as  two Screws sitting taking notes there was  electronic surveillance... Brendan complained of the boredom and the political censorship of books. But they do get AP/RN. He  had wanted to get in the book 'The  Dynamite War' but the governor banned it.  When Brendan asked for it, he said he  couldn't allow it. He asked why not. 7 can't  allow people to take refresher courses in my  prison/ he said. Brendan replied: 'What  makes you think I've forgotten what's in my  head?'   Carron said that the prisoners spoke about  the political progress of Sinn Fein and urged  greater involvement in social and economic  issues. Pipe-smoking, Belfast man Brian  Keenan, serving eighteen years, made no  complaint about conditions, 'although repatriation would make visiting handier', and  was more concerned with the progress of the  war, as were all the prisoners. He sent his  regards to his wife Chrissie and asked for a  photograph of his grandchild. Carron also  met Eddie Butler from Castleconnell, County  timerick, one of the famous Balcombe  Street men.  TEA   One of the most amusing happenings of  this last visit was the arrival of tea for Eddie  and myself,  said Carron.  I suppose when  you're behind six electronic doors and can't  blow your nose without a camera looking at  you, it's easy to see why they can afford  tea.   At 3 a.m. the next day Carron and Eddie  Caughey travelled to Southampton and on  to the Isle of Wight, where Albany and  Parkhurst prisons are situated.   All Irish POWs are category 'A', high-  risk, explained a senior prison officer to me.  This is why visiting was so restricted, he said  in defence. The first POW I saw was Tony  Clarke, a tall athletic Belfast man, with five  years left to serve. Like all POWs he had  been moved around a lot. He was glad to see  me as were all the lads there. 'Everyone is  sound here,' he said. There were eight republicans and spirits were high. Repatriation  for 'lifers' was the main issue, he said. There  would be twenty to thirty out over the next  two years and only the 'lifers' left. Something would have to be done. He sent his  regards to his nephews, Michael Fitzsimmons  and Joe Clarke in H-Blocks, to Mickey Reilly  and Gerry Small in Wakefield and to his  sister. Belle Fitzsimmons, in Lenadoon.   James Bennett  from  Belfast  was the  i    next man to come in. He told me they were  strip-searched before and after visits. He had  been picked up in Southampton and he too  had done the rounds.   Roy Walsh from Belfast was a man in  high spirits even though he was in some pain  when I saw him. Roy, who was force-fed for  a time along with the Price sisters and Kelly  and Feeney, complained of a stomach ailment. The authorities, even though the  prison doctor had recommended X-ray treatment were refusing to bring him the necessary two hundred yards next door to Parkhurst to the X-ray machine. Such is typical  of the vindictiveness of the prison administration, and such revenge brought death to  Sean O'Connaill, through lack of medical  attention.   Stephen Blake from Donegal had just  arrived from Hull prison. His case is typical  of the hardship inflicted on POWs and relatives. Stephen has had no visits for three-  and-a-half years. Every time he has one  arranged he is moved to some other location.  Stephen's mother and brothers live in Letter-  kenny.   Jimmy Ashe from Birmingham will be  out in ten months. According  to some  female visitors he prides himself that he is  the best looking republican prisoner in jail    Ray  MacLaughlin,  a Birmingham res-  PRISONERS' MORALE IS HIGH SAYS CARRON  ON RETURN FROM ENGLISH JAILS' VISIT  mrHlnlHllun  lip theid niiifif firiif nun  lo ImmmMHtttmmu      Owen Carron on his recent visit to Irish POWs in English jails: 'The case for repatriation is clear.,  ident but originally from Buncrana, is a  happy-go-lucky bloke who nearly knocked  me down with a slap on the back when I  stood up to shake hands with him.  Repatriation was the main issue, he said.  There should be a full-time committee in  close contact with the prisoners. He sent his  love to his wife and kids in Birmingham and  his comrades in Wakefield and in Parkhurst.   Ronnie McCartney, a jubilant little  Belfast man, is the O/C of the republican  prisoners. He has served seven years and is  doing life. He has been moved around all the  jails     twenty-five times in fact. The men  are prepared to take a stand on repatriation.  They had tried to do their little bit to support the H-Block men. Many of the lads had  lost all their remission.   Noel Gibson is a quiet spoken but determined rnan from Portarlington, County  Laois. An uncle had been executed by the  Staters in the Civil War. He has served seven  years and hasn't had a visit since 1978. I  promised to call to his mother.   Owen saw a number of other prisoners  before visiting Hugh Callaghan, a man  wrongly convicted with six others for the  Birmingham bombs of 1974.   Hugh, finding it hard to cope, I'd say,  gave me a file on his case and remarked he  wasn't an IRA man. Nonetheless, he is a  victim of British racism and his case is  indeed a travesty of justice.  PARKHURST  That afternoon Owen visited Parkhurst.   Parkhurst is an old building, not like  Albany which was built in 1957. Parkhurst has, however, an SSB unit which holds  Harry Duggan, Joe O'Connell and Hugh  Doherty in the company of a Libyan and an  Iranian.   Again visiting conditions were restrictive, so much so that my first visitor, Harry  Duggan from Clare, confronted the Screws,  one of whom kept edging his chair closer to  us. Harry complained and an officer returned, but as usual there was this rule and that  rule. There was lots of aggravation, Harry  said, and they had to keep fighting for their  rights.   Harry had many reflections on the political scene at home and lots of comments  about the Southern election. He also thought  Sinn Fein had a lot of political work and  organisation to catch up on, the need to get  involved in the social and economic spheres.  Putting up Joe O'Connell was a mistake, he  believed. 'Joe's left Clare ten years now.  Surely Sinn Fein should be able to get a  better candidate'.   The next man to see me was Hugh  Doherty from Donegal. Bearded but with his  head shaved, he said he had to do something  with the electric shaver his mother sent him  and as he didn't want to shave his beard he  had to use it on whatever hair he had left   Hugh says AP/RN needs more political content and discussion.   In Parkhurst as the Screws slowed the  movement of prisoners up, I was only able  to see four POWs altogether. Two from the  SSB block and Gerry Young and Fr. Fell  from the ordinary wings.   HULL   On the Wednesday, I travelled up to  Hull where I saw Tony Madigan, John Mc  Cluskey from Fermanagh, Eddie O'Neill  from Coalisland, Stephen Nordone from  Dundalk and Dicky Glenho/mes from Belfast. Tony Madigan will be out in June, he  has lost sixteen months' remission and John  McC/uskey, two-and-a-half years. Repatriation and visiting conditions are the main  issues in Hull. Petty harassment is rife as  one would expect from National Front  supporters  in  the prison service.  Stephen  Nordone has had no visits for two-and-a-half  years as his family is harassed by police  when they are over. Dickie Glenho/mes also  saw this as a problem but his wife comes to  visit him.   Owen Carron says that seventy-four Brits  have been transferred to British jails for  offences committed in the six counties.  These include the two convicted of pitchfork murders in Fermanagh who are now in  Wakefield.  There are less Irisii prisoners so  why can't they be repatriated?  says Carron.   All the prisoners told me of Mick  Murray, on a blanket for four-and-a-half  years. John McC/uskey had to shout over to  him in the punishment block the night  before and he said he wanted to see me. He  thought he was being drugged. When I asked  to see him I was told he couldn't have  visits as he wouldn't wear a uniform. I  went to see the governor but he said there  was nothing he could do. I asked to go down  to the block     no, the Home Office wouldn't  allow it - need a special order, etc. And so  I left Hull without seeing Mick Murray but  knowing he's a sound man.   In the afternoon I went to Wakefield      Wakefield prison that claimed the life of  Frank Stagg. Brian MacLaughlin from Dungiven was the first I saw. He'll be out in  June. Mick Reilly, whose father is from  Ardoyne, has just seven months to do now.  Gerry Small from Be/fast will be out by  Christmas. In Wakefield I saw two other  innocent men: Patrick Armstrong from  Belfast doing thirty-five years and Patrick  Maguire to be released in 1985.   Patrick Maguire, one of the 'Guildford  Four', had his whole life ruined just because  British justice demanded its pound of flesh  and he, his wife and two sons were falsely  imprisoned -for incidents that IRA men  publicly claimed in court. Patrick Maguire  is coping well, he fjas Jpst his tivelihoodT  his freedom a nd Family, but not his spirit.   COURAGEOUS   I was soon to see how hard it can be for  IRA prisoners. I went to see Patrick Hackett  in the prison hospital. Pat is a remarkable  and courageous man. Minus an arm and a leg  due to a premature explosion on November  11th 1976, Pat Hackett is fighting still. He  has been on protest since January 1st 1979  for political status and repatriation. He is  locked in solitary confinement twenty-three-  and-a-half hours per day. He gets half-an-hour  exercise on a landing. He has a radio and  some books and gets some left-wing papers.  Pat told me about some of the bad treatment he has received. He was badly interrogated while recovering in St. Stephen's  Hospital, Fulham. Members of the Bomb  Squad beat him     a crippled man.  Pat too had many observations on the  political scene, says we need to be more  left-wing. Truly a remarkable man, he'll  never wear the uniform, he says, and he  wants a transfer to H-Block. Pat Hackett  deserves our support and it was indeed a  fitting conclusion to my tour to spend one-  and-a-half hours talking with him.   One other point is the colossal distances  between prisons which shows the physical  problem for relations going to see their  loved ones. The case for repatriation is clear.  The 1964 Instrument No. 388, Prison  Rule 31, guarantees it. The fact that it  doesn't apply to Irish POWs shows that  the Brits are motivated by racism and  revenge. Republicans who have been tempered and scarred by the prison struggle in  1981 must address themselves to the problem of our POWs in English jails and to their  repatriation.   Owen Carron who saw a total of thirty  prisoners has stilt to visit Gartree, Long  Lartin, Maidstone, Wormwood Scrubs and  the women republican prisoners in Durham,  and he hopes to do so in the near future.  as  no  H  X  ffl  i       a  c/ gt;  X  *v  m  O  r  tn  o  :r  to  CO  to  
        