August 9-August 15, 2003  The Irish People  Page 13  r lt;  ,  /  Saturday, August 9th  Toms River, NJ - The Annual AOH  festival at Huddy Park on the Toms River  will be held from 10am to 5pm. Jersey  Shore Irish Northern Aid will have a booth  at the festival selling merchandise and providing information. If you're in the area  stop by and visit us.  Saturday, August 16th  Brick, NJ - The 11th Annual Picnic  at the Shore will be held at the VFW on  Adamston Rd. from Noon to 5:00pm.  Entertainment will be provided by Willie  Lynch and his band. Food, beer, soda and  lots of fun for one reasonable donation of   20 per person (senior citizens  15 and  kids under 12 FREE). Merchandise will be  available. For information on tickets or  directions call Mary Lou at 732-295-5471.  Taoiseach's mandate  continued from page 12  Dail is to accept no less from Tony Blair.   The political process is being held hostage by  the now dominant anti-Agreement faction in the  Ulster Unionist Party. On Friday last, David  McNarry, a leading aide lo David Trimble, accused  Jeffrey Donaldson of 'trying to cynically side-step  democratic decisions'. This is rich indeed coming  from a UUP leadership that has thwarted the implementation of the Agreement at every turn.   The current impasse makes it more important  than ever for the Taoiseach to provide for representation in the Dfiil for citizens in the Six Counties.  This will be Sinn Fein's most immediate demand as  soon as the Dail resumes.   Sinn Fein will continue efforts at every level  to break the impasse. But we cannot wait forever  and if the unionists continue to make the Agreement  unworkable then the Irish government must sit  down and work out with the other nationalist parties  how we proceed and what demands wc make of the  British government. It was nationalist Ireland that  brought about the peace process. If necessary  nationalist Ireland must also move it into a new  phase.   * A booklet on Captain Edward Boylan has  been published by Cavan Sinn Fein. It can be  obtained from the Cavan Sinn Fein Office, 39  College Street, Cavan. Phone 049 4373510.  Books wanted  Do you have any good books you wouldn't mind parting with?  If so, the republican prisoners in Castlerea would be most happy  to take them oft your hands. Please contact Sean Kind, Castlerea  Prison, Castlerea, Co. Roscommon, Ireland.  Celtic Crossings  Radio Show  KCTE 1510 AM - Kansas City  On the web at www.1510.com      Produced by the Padraic Pearse Division AOH      Irish music, news and views     Tune in every Sunday 1 lam to Noon (central time)      Live streaming on the internet     Phone - in line: 913-491-TALK (8255)  Join co-hosts Jerry Hayes and Jacob Cox,  Irish Northern Aid members  for the best in Irish music, current news and the interviews from Ireland  WRITE TO THE  PRISONERS CAMPAIGN  Please remember the following political  prisoners with a card or letter. Thank you. Slan.  God Bless, Mike Duffy  IPOW writing campaign  IRISH POLITICAL PRISONERS  Name  Conor Claxton  Nial Connolly  Ken Fitzgerald  Kieran Kiely  Sean Kind  Martin McAuley  Pearse McCauley  James Monaghan  Walter Nagle  Michael Nugent  John O'Hagan  Michael O'Neill  John Quinn  Gerry Sheehy  Kevin Walsh  Birthday  Sept. 4  July 7  Feb. 25  Dec. 20  Nov. 12  Dec. 1  Nov. 9  Aug. 8  Aug. 23  Dec. 2  Dec. 2  Dec. 10  Nov. 8  June 15  April 6  Prison  Allenwood, PA  PISA 1, Colombia  Castlerea  Castlerea  Castlerea  PISA 1, Colombia  Castlerea  PISA 1, Colombia  Castlerea  Castlerea  Maghaberry  Castlerea  Castlerea  Castlerea  Castlerea  ADDRESSES  Maghaberry Prison  H.M. Prison Magheberry  Old Mill Road  Ballinderry, Co. Antrim  BT28 2PT  North Ireland  Castlerea Prison  Castlerea Prison  Castlerea  Co. Rosscommon  Ireland  Allenwood Prison  Conor Claxton 55002-004  FCI Allenwood  PO Box 1000  White Deer, PA 17887  Magilligan Prison  Martin Corden  H.M.Prison Magilligan  Magiiligan Point,  Limavady  Co. Derry BT49 OLR  North Ireland  PISA 1, Colombia  Carcel National de  Colombia  Alta Seguridad  La Modelo  Bogota, Colombia  Please be aware that in most cases the prisoners are very restricted as to what  they can and can not receive. If you intend on sending some type of parcel it  would be advisable to check with someone who knows the restrictions.  
        