August 9 - August 15, 2003  The Irish People  Page 11  Movie Review:  The Magdalene Sisters   By Linda Coleman  There's a recurring pattern in human history. First, the strong oppress the weak and do  vile things to them behind locked doors, in the  name of God, patriotism or a combination of  the two. Next, the stories get out somehow,  cither because the  weak  turn out to be  stronger than expected and live to tell their  own stories, or the stories are found after the  fact in journals left behind.  Instead of apologizing and admitting  wrongdoing, the former oppressors start a  major damage control campaign, denying  everything and denouncing the stories as outrageous accusations. Finally, a filmmaker comes  along, decides to bring the story to the film-  going public, and takes heaps of abuse for  telling it like it was.  Writer/director Peter Mullan first heard  the story of the Magdalene Asylums when he  was channel surfing and ran across the documentary  Sex in a Cold Climate.  At the Q A  following the press screening in Dallas, Mullan  admitted  crying like a baby  over the story,  then becoming angry - especially when it was  reported that the Vatican received 8,000 phone  calls following the airing of the documentary,  reporting similar cases of abuse at the hand of  the church; the official report from the Vatican  dismissed the complaints, explaining that the  documentary had caused a bad case of  mass  hallucination.   Mullan, a self-described  political animal.  was determined to bring the story of the  Magdalenes to a wider audience, and made his  own film, which opened in 2002 at the Venice  Film Festival to a hostile reception from the  Catholic church. Priests attempted to intimidate audience members into staying awa  b gt;  filming those who went into the theater, hut the  controversy had the opposite effect and propelled his small, low-budgel film into Italy's  top five slot for eleven weeks   The story of the Magdalene Asylums is  perhaps the darkest chapter of Free State history, a cautionary tale on the importance of separation of church and state. The church, given  free reign to exert control over Irish society,  enacted what amounted to internment, imprisoning  wayward  women in workhouses disguised as kind Catholic charitable institutions  helping women cleanse their souls while doing  laundry for hotels, restaurants and wealthy  parishioners.  Peter Mullan's script is based on interviews with Magdalene survivors, and he uses  four central characters to tell the story. There's  Crispina (Eileen Walsh) who has a baby out of  wedlock and watches him grow into boyhood  from a distance, peering at him across the yard  when her sister brings him to the locked gate  while the girls arc hanging out laundry.   Rose  (Dorothy Duffy) also has a baby out o ' wedlock and is forced by her parents into giving  the child up for adoption. Margaret (Anne-  Marie Duff) is taken away to the Magdalene  asylum by her parents, after being raped by her  cousin, and Bernadette (Nora-Jane Noonc) is  taken away from her family in the night, a tier  being caught flirting with boys thought the  fence at her school.  All of the actresses give heartbreaking,  realistic performances; as a director, Mullan  lets Ins actors  o ' ' the leash  to connect with  the material and create their own unique performances with very little input on his part.  They all excel in their roles and will make you  weep for them, as you would for your own sister, daughter, or mother. Geraldine MeF.wan  gives a steely-eyed Shakespearean performance as Sister Bridget, the nun in charge of the  laundry; she resists what surely must have been  a temptation to imbue her role with a Cruella  de Vil characterization, and goes for a realistic,  chilling, understated cruelty.  The film has its share of dark Irish humor,  and a satisfying ending with the survivors coming out stronger than ever. Parts of the film  may be difficult for some viewers, though,  especially a scene that contains full frontal  nudity. But at the Q A in Dallas, Mullan said  that the one thing he heard over and over from  Magdalene survivors is that the nuns made the  girls stand naked in front of them and made  demeaning comments about their bodies. In  Scotland, Mullan was asked by audience members if he could have filmed it differently, with  only a head and shoulder shot of the girls;  Mullan was adamant, saying,  To not show it  clinically would be titiilation...for the political  animal in me, the girls had to get the recogni-  lion they deserve and an apology from the  church who let them down.   There's another recurring theme in human  history, the strong forcing the weak to suffer  the degradation of nakedness. The British  forced the heroes of 1916 to stand naked in the  freezing cold, allowed the H-block POWs to  go naked rather than give them their own  clothes to wear, and they used forced strip  searches to degrade and intimidate republican  female prisoners in Armagh jail; the Nazis  dehumanized the Jews in the same way before  murdering them in the gas chambers of  Auschwitz. To be coy with the camera would  do an injustice to those who suffered, so filmmakers and actors, like Peter Mullan and his  brave company of players, commit themselves  to showing the cruelty full out, hoping that  their effort will shock humanity into being  kind to one another.  Reviewed at advanced screening in  Dallas, .Inly 9, with Peter Mullan in attendance.  Nial Connelly  continued from page 9  undermine the Colombian peace process. The  so-called forensic evidence has been proven to  be false.  Our arrests and the mass of information and  false stories that have followed have also been  used to damage and undermine the Irish peace  process. The Irish peace process is at an  advanced stage. Yet more work needs to be  done. My friends have spoken about the process  of political recognition and status, the process of  negotiations   between   the   governments   of  Ireland, Britain and America and Irish republicans.  Since our arrest the Fiscal  prosecutor ,  instead of fulfilling his duty and responsibilities  to guarantee that justice is done, has arrogantly  thrown the presumption of innocence into the  dustbin, along with the independence of his  institution.  The Fiscal has failed to guarantee that procedures are respected and that the evidence is  analyzed in a just and impartial way.  Confidential details about our case have been  given to the media to upset and damage our  opportunity to get a fair trial. Fabricated foren-  sics was allowed, while DAS tests that showed  that there were no traces of explosives or drugs  were kept out.  We have been placed in jails in Colombia  under the recommendation of the Fiscal while  our lives have been in danger, and in the opinion  of one judge, who ordered our transfer, we have  been subject to degrading and inhumane treatment. Obstacles have been placed in our way  and that of our lawyers when wc were trying to  prepare our defense. Our lawyers' lives are in  danger because of the statements made in the  media, many of them by prominent politicians.  Our lawyers from Colombia and Ireland  will show that without a shadow of a doubt thai  wc arc not guilty as charged. They will also  show that this case should never have been  brought to this court. I am not guilty of the  charges laid against me. I come here today to  remind the Fiscal of my rights, my international  rights of the Presumption of Innocence.  The determination of our families and the  Bring Them Home Campaign led by Caitriona  Ruane, ihe presence of international observers  from Australia, the United Slates, Ireland and the  presence of the Irish government observers at  this trial, the messages from all around the world  of support and the active support of thousands of  people in Ireland has given us much moral support and 1 thank you from the bottom of my  heart.  Kelly murder case reopened  Family reject new probe and demand independent review  BY AINE Ne BHRIAIN  The family of an independent nationalist councilor, Patrick Kelly, who was  assassinated 29 years ago, has said they  will not cooperate with a new PSNI  inquiry and are demanding an independent  judicial review into the killing.  Patrick Kelly, a 33-year-old father of  three, disappeared on 24 July 1974, after  locking up the Corner Bar in the village of  Trillick, Co Tyrone. Later that same night,  bloodstains, shirt buttons, and cartridge  cases were found on the roadside a mile  from the town.  Kelly's body was not found until three  weeks later, after a fisherman spotted  something on the surface of Lough Eyes  in County Fermanagh, nearly ten miles  away. Kelly had been shot several times  and  there were two  561b  agricultural  weights tied to his body.  The UDA later claimed responsibility  for the killing.  To date, no one has been arrested,  questioned or charged with the death of  the independent councilor, but nationalists  have long asserted that UDR checkpoints  were operating in the area on the night  Kelly disappeared.  Then, in 1999, a former UDR man  reportedly broke down in public and confessed to witnessing the murder. The man  is said to have wept openly in a bar before  naming six of his fellow UDR members as  participants in the killing.  This past Tuesday, 29 July, the PSNI  suddenly announced they would reopen  the investigation, but they have neglected  to reveal why.  One of those expected to be questioned is former DUP Assembly member  Oliver Gibson, who is also a former UDR  soldier. Gibson says he has  nothing to  hide  and insisted that any suggestions  that he knew something about the killing  were groundless.   I have nothing to hide and nothing to  fear,  he said.  As far as I am concerned  there is no story to do with me in all this.  I do not believe I am a suspect of any  kind. The best thing at the moment is for  me to say nothing and let the PSNI get on  with it.   In the meantime, Kelly's brother,  Omagh Sinn Fein councilor Peter Kelly,  says that the PSNI decision to reopen the  case came  totally out of the blue  and  that his family has no faith in its outcome.   Wc are not happy to cooperate with  continued on page 15  
        