I  Will Investors Ever Again Trust Dublin?  DUBLIN-Europe's biggest zinc  and lead mine, located at Navan in  Eire's County Meath, is lying idle.  The Canadian and European investors  who own it cannot raise the money  they need to work it, because the  Irish government has not granted  them a lease. Although the mine  would constitute the biggest  industrial investment ever made in  Eire, where jobs are scarce, the  government has spent almost four  years weighing the application for a  permit to work the deposit. It  recently set forth the terms on which  it would grant the lease, terms which  the mining company promptly  spurned as  grievously onerous and  unreasonable,  not to mention illegal.  All Dublin wants is half the equity for  a song, and the right to take  four-fifths of the gross profits.  The tribulations of Tara  Exploration   Development Ltd.,  which owns the 77-million-ton  lead-zinc deposit at Navan, illustrate  the difficulties which hard-rock  miners today face worldwide. From  British Columbia to Australia via  Norway and Morocco, governments  have taken to aping OPEC. Ignoring  the difference between the highly  volatile base metals market and the  rigged oil market, these governments  are writing mining leases that are  tantamount to expropriation in the  best Arab manner.  MINISTER SUED  The Irish case perhaps is unusual in  that the Socialist Minister involved  has displayed such a degree of  arbitrariness that he is being sued in  the courts for unconstitutional acts.  In other ways, though, it is typical  enough to serve as a test case. By  trying to go too far, the Irish  government is demonstrating  experimentally, as it were, at what  point mining investors balk. Not only  is the Navan deposit lying unworked,  but also Ireland's mining industry as a  whole is grinding to a halt.  Prospecting has virtually stopped.  Plans for a mineral-processing plant  have been abandoned. Foreign  investors are withdrawing, and the oil  companies have indicated that on  terms like these, they couldn't care  less what lies beneath the Irish Sea.  The Irish mining industry is a  recent creation. Liberal mining laws,  enacted by Conservative governments,  attracted enterprising Irish-Canadian  prospectors to the Isle in the 'Sixties.  When they struck it rich, they were  followed by the international mining  majors. Some  130 million was spent  on prospecting over the past decade.  It turned up enough lead, zinc,  copper and silver to make  concentrates a leading Irish export.  By last year, 1,000 licenses were held  by prospectors using the latest  geochenrical and electronic  techniques to locate that proverbial  crock o' gold hidden under the Ould  Sod.  Four Irish mines currently are in  production. Avoca Mines, controlled  by Discovery Mines of Canada,  operates in County Wicklow.  Silvermines, which is 75 -owned by  International Mogul, raises lead and  zinc in Tipperary. Northgate  Exploration, a Canadian concern  listed on the NYSE, mines lead-zinc  at Tynagh in Galway and copper at  Gortdrum, Tipperary. All those  discoveries were dwarfed by the rich  ore body located at Navan, not 100  miles from Dublin, by Tara, an  Irish-Canadian company closely  associated with Northgate.  UNSUCCESSFUL BID  Tara's shares are listed in Toronto  and London. From 50 cents before  the Navan strike, they zoomed to  29  earlier this year, during an  unsuccessful takeover bid by British  and Canadian interests. After the bid,  Tara's ownership was divided between  Cominco of Vancouver, which holds  17 , Charter Consolidated of London  with 14 , Canada's Noranda Mines  with 19 , and Northgate and the  Irish directors, who hold about 40 .  When the dispute erupted with   .ublin over a lease, trading in the  stock was briefly suspended. The  shares currently trade around  14.    The mines* at Tynagh, Silvermines  and Gortdrum were opened up under  the favorable legislation passed in  1956. Then in 1967, additional  incentives were offered, notably, the  promise of a 20-year tax holiday for  any mine that went into production  before 1986. Feverish prospecting  activity ensued, culminating in the  discovery at Navan in November  1970. Dublin gave Tara firm  undertakings that a suitable lease  would be granted, so the company  went ahead with development. It sank   25 million at the site and planned to  spend all told almost  100 million to  bring the mine into production by  next year.  The project was to raise 2.5'million  tons of ore a year, yielding 470,000  tons of concentrates. At current  prices, they would be worth about   100 million, or 1.5  of Eire's gross  national product. Canadian banks, led  by the Toronto Dominion Bank,  stood ready to provide senior  financing once the lease was official.  REPLACED BY COALITION  Things started to go wrong with  the Irish elections of February 1973.  After 16 years in office, the  Conservatives were ousted by a  coalition of the Fine Gael and the  Labour Party. A Labour politician,  Justin Keating, took over the Ministry  of Industry and Commerce, which  controls mining. Suddenly in  September 1973, without  consultation or warning, Mr. Keating  abolished the 20-year tax holiday that  had attracted mining capital to  Ireland. This reversal did so much  damage to Eire's reputation for fair  dealing that the Prime Minister, Liam  Cosgrave, issued repeated assurances  that taxation would be reasonable  and in line with that of other  countries.     That had a consequence the Irish  nationalists had not foreseen. Since  Irish mining-shares had slumped when  the tax-break ended, and the  government now was promising that  taxation would be no worse than in  other lands, foreign mining giants  moved in. Their target was Tara and  its rich Navan'ore body, Cominco,  which belongs to the Canadian Pacific  group, and Charter Consolidated,  controlled by the powerful Anglo  American Corp., in February 1974  bid  25 apiece for Tara shares. Many  Irish stockholders sold out, and the  Irish directors could only fight off the  bid by enlisting the aid of Noranda  Mines. The bid failed, but 51  of  Tara stock passed under foreign  control. In the process, it was  demonstrated that the mining world  valued Tara at well over  160 million.  Under its new owners, Tara pressed  ahead with development work at  Navan. It completed a 1,000-foot  access shaft and a 4,000-foot service  ramp, and started work on the  concentrator complex. Then, in order  to clinch its financing arrangements,  it asked the government for the  promised lease. On July 8, Mr.  Keating unveiled his modest  proposals. He wanted 49  of the  equity, of which 25  would be paid  for by issue of the lease and 24  in  cash. But the sum he had in mind was   9.6 million. Thus, the government  would pay  9.6 million for 49  of a  company which the market had just  valued at over  160 million. Viewed  another way, it was offering  2.50 for  shares which Cominco and Charter  Consolidated had offered (and paid)   25.  UNIQUELY EXORBITANT  There was more. The government  would charge royalties on a scale that  would jslide from 4  to 20 , as  maximum production was attained.  Moreover, it would take 50  of the  profits as corporate tax. A simple  calculation shows that far from being  comparable with the government   take  in other countries, these levies  were uniquely exorbitant. Out of  every  100 of gross profits, the Irish  government would take  20 in  royalty, plus  40 In profits tax (50   of the remaining  80). Then, as  shareholder, it would get  19.60,  which is 49  of the net profits of  40  after tax. In all, its take would run to  - 79.60. If it levied royalty at the  ' more moderate rate of 15 , it would  still claim  78.70 out of every  100  of operating profit.  That would compare with a total  government take from  100 of  mining revenues of  40 in Italy,   47.70 in Canada,  48 in the U.S.,  and  56.20 in Socialist Norway.  Moreover, it compared with only  10  that prospectors were told they  would have to pay when they first  went to Eire in quest of minerals a  gasfield off Cork, in a region,  moreover, where many bore holes  have been failures.  The Confederation of Irish  Industries concludes:  The  government must therefore present a  package of terms which will be more  attractive (not less) than those  available off other Northwestern  European shores at the present time.   By trying to impose in advance the  few years ago. Granted that promises  sortuof fms NorwaY could get away  with   after   major   oil   discoveries,  0 gt;i *.* ****** ,  of a tax holiday had been forgotten  with the change in government, the  present Irish administration seemed  to be overlooking its commitment to  impose  comparable  mining taxes  and to issue Tara an acceptable lease.  Accordingly, the company rejected  the terms it was offered and started  long, and so far fruitless, negotiations  for a better deal. Meantime, in the  absence of a lease, financing could  not be arranged and there was no cash  to proceed with development of the  mine. So on August 16, it was put on  a  care and maintenance basis,  and  most workers were laid off. Having  been advised by legal counsel that the  Minister's demand for 49  of its  equity at bargain prices was  unconstitutional, Tara sued him  before the High Court. It asked for a  court order compelling the Minister  to issue a mining lease on reasonable  terms. Into the bargain, it sought  damages, which could run to  72  million, to compensate it for the long  wait for a mining lease.   NO CONFIDENCE   MOTION  That was quite enough to bring the  Tara brouhaha into the foreground of  turbulent Irish politics (the Cosgrave  government now faces a motion of   no confidence ). Exploiting the  now-familiar rhetoric of  natural-resources demagogy, the  Labour Minister has won the  vociferous support of  conservationalists and leftists. Dublin  is plastered with Sinn Fein signs,   Nationalize Tar l Ireland's wealth  for the Irish people    As sometimes happens when Celtic  eloquence gets free rein, the mere  facts are lost to sight. The way they  tell it in the pubs along O'Connel  Street, the Navan deposit is really  worth two billion Irish pounds ( 4.8  billion), whereas at today's prices, a  few hundred million dollars would be  nearer the mark. The Minister is  credited with defending this national  treasure from foreign freebooters.  On the contrary, Mr. Keating has  -been trying to enlist the support of  the foreign shareholders in Tara to  oust the Irish group that exerts  control. In September, he pressingly  invited Cominco, Charter  Consolidated and Noranda to meet  . him in Dublin. His idea was that since  they owned 51  of the stock, they  could join forces, overthrow the Irish  directors and then come to terms  with him for a lease. When Noranda  flatly refused to attend any meeting  in the absence of the Irish directors,  the scheme for a palace revolution fell  through.  In demanding a  carried interest   in the Navan mine, Mr. Keating says  he is following the pattern Norway  has set in fixing terms for North Sea  oil permits. Indeed, the Irish Labour  Party would like to set up a state  minerals authority modelled on  Norway's Statoil, which would own  the 49  stake in Navan and a similar  carried interest in all future mining  leases and offshore oil permits. A  batch of 20-25 exploration blocks on  Ireland continental shelf is to be put  up for bids before the end of the  year, and the oil companies will  probably be asked to accept the terms  being proposed to Tara.  MAY OVERPLAY HAND  If so, Dublin might well be  overplaying its hand. Although many  Irishmen credit their offshore waters  with wealth equal to that of the  North Sea, geologists point out that  the sea bed is mostly solid rock,  without promise of oil or gas. The  only waters likely to cover  hydrocarbons are 650-1,000 feet  deep, and thus beyond the range of  today's technology. So far the only  DwiHon g pf-jiydrocarbons  is;a ;small   Dublin is out-Heroding Herod.  In any case, oil companies can  afford to take certain risks as long as  OPEC succeeds in keeping the price  of crude around  10 a barrel.  Hard-rock miners, in contrast, are  looking for metals, the price of which  fluctuates wildly. Right now, base  metal quotations are falling sharply,  endangering the future of all marginal  Irish mines. By choosing this moment  to force through Draconian terms,  and to renege on official  undertakings, Dublin risks killing an  industry that was juststirring to life.  COULD FACE SHUTDOWN  Already Avoca Mines, hit by the  crash in copper prices, has retrenched  on half its workforce and could face  closure. Irish mines are barely  profitable; anyhow they will be  worked out within the decade. If the  industry is to survive, more mines will  have to be found, by keeping up the  pace of exploration and by using the  expertise and equipment drawn to  Eire during the minerals boom. Yet  by   the -j  since the terms for the Navan lease X  were made public, all prospecting has   ,  ceased. Investor-owned companies 2  cannot agree to risk millions of       dollars in the uncertain quest for  minerals if they know they will be  despoiled of 80  of whatever they  find.  The  problem  goes well  beyond  Ireland's shores. It concerns all those Jjp  governments which presume that they S  can copy OPEC, if they have any jjj.  natural resources to sell. The point is    best    made   this   month  Association for Economic Geology, a  group of  Irish geologists who have eg  drawn the lessons of Dublin's recent       gt;  ventures into natural-resources bluff:   The mines of the future will be at  greater depth and will give very little,  if indeed any, surface response. The  exploration programs required to find  such deposits will be intensive and .  long-term and will, therefore, involve  much greater expenditure. They will  require   a   solid   fiscal   and   legal  framework.    Because    of    their  long-term  nature, they will require  guarantees that the ground rules, once  established, will not be changed.  The courts now must decide  whether, in Tara's case, the rules were  changed unconstitutionally. Whatever  the upshot, Tara is condemned to go  ahead, because it has sunk so much  money in its mine on the strength of  official promises. What is at stake is  whether investors ever again will be  willing to place their trust in Dublin's  word.  John McGowan Memorial  Previously this newspaper  announced that the Miltown Malbay  Social Club will hold a fund-raising  benefit at Gaelic Park Casino in  December for the purpose of erecting  a perpetual memorial to the life and  work of John McGowan.  It is now known that the dance will  be held at the Casino on the evening  of December 21, a Saturday.* To  direct the dance and fund-raising  drive, the Club has organized the  John McGowan Memorial Committee  as follows:  Co-Chairmen: John O'Malley,  933-7476; Danny McMahon  TA-2-2470  President: Michael Frawley, 884-0261  Treasurer: Jay Crawford FA-5-8877  Secretary: .Mary McCarthy  FA-5-5162  Publicity Director: Sean Frawley  (914) 271-5936  The appeal for contributions and  donations by the Committee for the-  John McGowan Memorial should be  viewed by all who knew him, by all  who benefited from his tireless efforts  in their behalf, as an excellent  opportunity to say  Thank you,  and  to help continue the spirit of his  work.  All donations, all contributions,  should be made payable to a special  fund formed by the Memorial  Committee as follows:  The John McGowan Memorial  Fund    Jay Crawford, Treasurer  4151 Monticello Avenue  Bronx, New York 10466  All inquiries in regard to the  Memorial Fund or the dance should  be directed to any of the Committee  members listed above.  MIKE GORMAN'S  BAR and GRILL  If you want the best In music, company and drink-we have it.  204th Street and Webster Avenue  Bronx, New York  Come and make yourself at home in an Irish bar  IT  Ancient Order Of Hibernians Division 41  ANNUAL    HARVEST BALL I  AT  St. Joseph By The Sea High School  5150 Hylan Blvd. Huguenot, Staten Island, New York I  FEATURING    PADDY NOONAN'S BAND  ON  SATURDAY NOV. 23rd      i  AT 9 P.M.  DONATION  6  SET-UPS AVAILABLE    evn  L  FOR INFORMATION CALL  OR  rtffr   ffi a   *.  (212) 984-6209  (212) 356-4370    ,  
        