E  JO  H  a  3  00  00  oo  os  til  3  a,  O  til,  Ph  E  00  00   lt;o    J  Ph  Countess Markievicz  Constance Georgina Gore-Booth Markievicz  COUNTESS MARKIEVICZ (1868-1927). Constance Georgina Gore-Booth, the eldest daughter of  Sir Jocelyn and Lady Gore-Booth, of Lissadell, Co. Sligo, was born on February 4th, 1868, at  Buckingham Gate, close by the Royal Palace in London. Her father was a wealthy benevolent landlord, of Protestant Anglo-Irish stock. Having spent her youth at Lissadell, at the age of eighteen  she went to Paris to study art. There she met a Polish Count, Joseph Dunin Markievicz, whom  she married, at St. Marylebone's Parish Church, in London in 1900. Having settled in Dublin, she  met Padraic Pearse and Thomas MacDonagh, and became deeply involved in the national movement. She joined James Connolly's Citizen Army, and became known as  The Rebel Countess .  She founded Na Fianna Eireann, the national boy scout movement. In the Rising of 1916, she  was Vice-Commandant to Michael Mallin, in the College of Surgeons Garrison at St. Stephen's  Green. After the surrender she was sentenced to death. This was later commuted to penal servitude for life. She was released from Holloway Jail in the General Amnesty of 1917. She became  a Catholic the same year, and was baptized at Holy Cross College. Having been elected in the  General Election of 1918, she was appointed to the Ministry of Labour when Dail Eireann was  set up in January 1919. To the end of her life she devoted herself to the welfare of the Irish  people. She dispensed so much of her wealth to the poor of Dublin, that when she died in a  public ward of Sir Patrick Duns Hospital, she was virtually penniless. She breathed her last at  1.25 a.m. on the morning of July 15th, 1927, by her bedside * was her daughter Maeve. She  was laid in state in the Rotunda Cinema. The Free State Government had callously refused to  give the Mansion House. Around her bier for two days and nights, her own boys of Na Fianna  Eireann, had stood as guard of honour. Two of their comrades. Con Colbert of Limerick and  Sean Heuston of Dublin, had been executed in 1916. Thousands came to pay homage, many in  tears, not least amongst them, were the poverty-stricken people whom she had succoured so well.  Ireland mourned one of her greatest heroines. Her greatness and her deeds shall not be forgotten.  SPONSORED BY  AN CUMANN CABHRACH  BERGEN COUNTY, NEW JERSEY  David Neeson, President  Pete Quinn, Treasurer   
        