Pace 6  The Irish People  August 9 -August 15, 2003  idealism  lives on  By Fr. Des  Many tributes have been paid  and will be paid to Oliver Kearney,  one of the most constant and brilliant  of our people who struggled for our  human rights and dignity.  Al much the same time as we  lost Oliver for the time being,  because wc tire always at one with  each other, whatever happens we  learned of the departure Of Gary  MacEoin also.  The two men were different in  some important ways. Gary worked  in America, Oliver in Ireland. Gary  lived to be over ninety years of age  and Oliver was first diagnosed with  serious illness when he was in his  early fifties.  Much of Gary's work was done  by writing: books, plays, articles, and  in lecturing. Oliver's work was often  done by lecturing and writing but he  would probably have called it  briefing  rather than lecturing toiling  people who wanted to know, or who  should know, what was really happening behind the closed doors of  factories, offices and government  buildings where, sheltered by a  veneer of respectability, the most  appalling cruelty occurred, whether  by bullying or by discrimination and  unfair employment practices.  Gary told again and  again the  stories of people who had few others  to tell their stories for them, people  living in the Americas and other parts  of the world who were often treated  like slaves, calling out to those who  had religious beliefs, or even the  slightest of moral beliefs, to come  and help them.  Between the two of them it  became more and more difficult to  cat some of the bread baked in South  Belfast or drink the whiskey distilled  in north Antrim or to admire the over  flying aircraft built in Shorts or drink  Coke without a surge of anger and a  hardening of one's determination to  end unfairness and cruelty in work  forever.  When he was over ninety Gary  showed no signs of giving up the  struggle. When he might well have  been only halfway through his term  of life Oliver was given notice that he  did not have much longer to live.  Both these men were dear  friends to us all, whether we knew  them personally or not.  They were never done studying,  Oliver brought together a mass of  facts, figures, assessments which  proved invaluable for everyone who,  dashing after him to keep up, went to  light for the MacBride Principles and  for decent equality.  Then, as if that were not enough,  continued on page 7  The  Elusive  Spondulix  Tom Culhane  954-A Stuyvesant Ave.  Union, NJ 07083  908-964-2772  Dpttv church  Loyalists up  the ante  The relative calm experienced by nationalist  communities during the loyalist Twelfth marching period came to a shuddering end over the lust  seven days as loyalist gangs attacked Catholic  homes in the Stiles estate in Antrim, threatened a  teenage Catholic girl in Dunmurry by putting a  gun to her head and torched a Catholic church  outside Magherafelt in County Deny-.  In the midst of this loyalist violence, homes  in the Clandeboye area of the Short Strand, which  had been experiencing a period of peace since the  pogroms of last summer, came under fire from  loyalist youths using ball bearings and golf balls.  Not content with their attacks on Catholics,  loyalist paramilitaries have shown the racist side  to their makeup by erecting Nazi insignia in  Ballymcna and distributing White National Party  literature as part of their campaign against non-  whites.  badly damaged  An historic South Derry Catholic church  has been badly damaged in a sectarian arson  attack. Extensive damage was caused to the  altar of St John's Church, on the main  Magherafelt to Castledawson Road at  around 5.30am on Saturday 26 July.  A window at the rear of the church was  broken and flammable liquid was poured in.  The floor at the rear of the building, which  dates from the time of the penal laws in  Ireland, was also badly damaged.  Parish church curate Father David  Moore said it would take a lot of money to  repair the damage.  The church is located yards from  O'Donovan Rossa's GAA ground, which has  been the target of sectarian attacks by loyalists on numerous occasions in recent years.  Gun put  to girl's head  A 17-year-old girl had a gun put to her head  and her two male companions, aged 14 and 26,  needed hospital treatment after they attacked by  up to 15 members of the UDA in Dunmurry on  the outskirts of Belfast at around 5.30pm on  Sunday 27 July.  The three were set upon in the car park of a  vacant supermarket in the Quecnsway area of  Dunmurry and ordered to lie on the ground by  the gang, who were wearing balaclavas and were  armed with a handgun, baseball bats and golf  clubs.  As they lay on the ground the two males  were set upon while the gunman held the gun to  the girl's head as she was assaulted.  The two teenagers were treated in hospital  for cuts and bruising while the 26-year-old man  suffered a broken ankle and multiple cuts and  bruising to his head and body.  The girl's parents, who spoke with Sinn  Fein's Paul Butler, said their daughter is now terrified.  Lagan Valley Sinn Fein councilor Paul  Butler described the attack as blatantly sectarian  and said it was part of a coordinated and vicious  anti-Catholic campaign being waged on the  Catholic community by the UDA.   This was not some group of kids. These  were armed and masked UDA men. The political  representatives of the UDA are continually  appearing in the media assuring people that the  UDA is on cessation, but the reality on the  ground for Catholics in places like Dunmurry  and Lisburn is very different.   Butler added that local political representatives have a role to play in stopping these sectarian attacks but unfortunately they have failed to  play any part in ending these onslaughts so far.   Instead of confronting sectarianism in  Lisburn and Dunmurry, unionists have decided  to institutionalize it in Lisburn Council. The  exclusion of nationalists from civic positions is  only one step removed from the violent incidents  we have witnessed in recent weeks.   Butler called on nationalists to be very vigilant.  On 20 July, a 21 year-old Catholic was seriously injured after he was attacked by a gang of  20 loyalists wielding golf clubs, iron bars and  poles painted red, white and blue as he played  golf at Aberdelghy Golf club, outside Lisburn. In  November last year, West Belfast Catholic Harry  McCartin was viciously beaten and nailed to a  fence by loyalists in the Seymour Hill estate in  Dunmurry.  Nationwide Service -  Truckload   Large LTL  CALLAHAN TRANSPORTATION INC.  Jim Callahan  P.O. Box 480617  Kansas City, MO 64148  (816)942-0307  
        