What Price  An 'Invisible'  Barrier  The Dail was amazed to learn that  the cost of installing the new  electrically-operated barriers at the  two entrances to Leinster House was  19,500 pounds of which 15,000  pounds went to the firm which  supplied and installed the barriers,  and the balance was spent on  buildings and work to prepare the  site.  The information came in a written  reply to Major Vivion de Valera who  asked for the cost of providing the  old pole barriers and the new ones.  Mr. Ryan, Minister'for Finance, told  him the pole barriers were supplied  and installed at a total cost of 900  pounds.  And the nrice of eating in the  restaurants at Leinster House has  risen dramatically this week. Increases  range from 20 to 50 per cent.  Critical Lack Of Engineers  Waterford Badly Hit  THE RELUCTANCE of young  engineers to enter the public sector is  causing major problems for local  authorities throughout the country,  who are finding themselves faced with  an acute shortage of qualified civil  engineering staff.  The difficulties are particularly  appar k in Waterford, where the  coui.ty manager, Mr. C. O'Connor  and the acting city manager, Mr.  T. chael Doody, have prepared a  record estimate for development  schemes, totaling over 51/a million  pounds. Many major works, however,  have been held up because of the  failure to recruit a sufficient number  of engineers for the staff in both the  city and county.  Newly   qualified   engineers   have  3 Die In Accidents  Girls Seriously Injured  A MAN WHOSE wife and two  daughters died in the 1968 Aer  Lingus Viscount crash off the  Wexford coast was killed early on  Saturday morning when his car was in  collision with a CLE. bulk cement  carrier near Perry Bridge, Clonlara,  about four miles from Limerick City.  He was one of three people killed in  road accidents over the weekend.  He was Mr. Ignatius Gallivan, aged  about 45, of Raheen Heights, who  was employed at the new Wyeth  (Ireland) Limited factory, Askeaton,  Co. Limerick. He is survived by his  second wife, three sons, his mother,  brother and sisters.  In another accident Mr. David  Hartigan, aged about 46 years, of  Croom, Co. Limerick, was dead on  admission to the Regional Hospital,  Limerick, after being struck by a car  while walking on the main road near  his home over the weekend.  The man who was killed in a  two-car collision on the  Derry-Limavaddy road at Eglintoh on  Friday night has been named as Mr.  Joseph    McKinney,   aged   48,   of  Hunger Strike  Protest  Continued from Page 4  Brandywell district but no one was  hit.  Widespread rioting and hijacking of  vehicles took place in Dungannon  during which two buses and a number  of cars were set on fire. Troops and  police who were to the scene in an  attempt to clear the blocked  approach roads to the town came  under fire and were forced to retreat.  In Coalisland over 5,000 people  accompanied the remains of Hugh  Coney when they arrived'from the  mortuary at Lagan Bank, Belfast. A  volley of shots were fired over the  hearse by men wearing paramilitary  uniforms and no troops or police  were.visible in the area.  the circumstances of the fatal  shooting of 24-year-old Mr. Coney  would be investigated by the RUC  and the British army's special  investigation branch, the Secretary  for State, Mr. Rees, told the British  House of Commons yesterday.  The escape tunnel had only been  recently dug, it is believed, when it  was decided to take advantage of the  disruption of normal procedures at  the camp following the recent  burnings.  Using spoons and other crude  tools, the men in Cage 5, known as  the  Mole Hill  because of previous  tunnelings, began to excavate and  went five feet down and 65 yards  across until they were just outside the  final perimeter fence.  Film issued by the Northern  Ireland Office showed compound  five, with a hole 18 inches in diameter  in the floor of the hut and it was  through this hole that the 30 or so  men made their attempt for freedom.  Soil brought out of the tunnel was  not noticed because it was scattered  Gortgar    Cottages,    Greysteel,    Co.  Derry.  His five-year-old daughter,  Catherine Anne, who was seriously  injured, was reported to be showing  continuing improvement. She is in  Altnagelvin Hospital, Derry.  Mrs. Mary O'Hare, of 56 Hillcrest  East, Lucan, Co. Dublin, was injured  yesterday afternoon when her car  overturned at Cooladangan Bridge  near Arklow, Co. Wicklow. She was  taken to St. Columcille's Hospital, in  Loughlinstown, where she was said to  be in a comfortable condition.     Gardai in Dublin were still  investigating the accident at Milltown  Road early yesterday morning when a  white Jaguar car went out of control,  struck three oncoming cars, and  eventually ended up in the Dodder  river. When gardai arrived on the  scene there was nobody in the car and  its engine was still ticking over as it  lay partially submerged in the water.  Gardai think that the car may have  been stolen and the occupant ran  away after the crash. None of the  people in the three cars it hit were  injured.  among the blaze debris.  A spokesman at the Northern  Ireland office said it was not known  when the tunnel had been.started,  although republican sources in the  city seem to believe it began shortly  after the fire.  When the detainees started their  break-out the area around the camp  was shrouded in thick mist and  visibility was reduced to about 300  yards. The men went under three  fences and came up just outside the  blast fence.  It was then according to British  Army statements that they were  discovered by a  routine Army  patrol . Most of the men were  quickly rounded up but some others,  who had split into small groups, had  already passed through tangles of      barbed wire further on.  One of these groups passed a new  army watch tower close to the M1  motorway and at this point the army  says, they were challenged, failed to  stop, and two shots were fired killing  Cooney.  The British army said that it  appeared some of the men were  armed. But a spokesman at the  Northern Ireland Office said that no  weapons were recovered in  subsequent follow-up searches.  Disturbance broke out in  republican compounds shortly after  the escape and republican detainees  tried to stage a breakout through the  main gates. The British army was  called in by the Governor and rubber  bullets and CS. gas were used to quell  the rioting.  Seventy members of Provisional  Sinn Fein staged a torchlight protest  march through the centre of Dublin.  They were led by four men carrying a  mock coffin shoulder-high and  marchers carried banners calling for  an end to internment and comparing  Long Kesh with Coldftz and Belsen.  been drifting to the private sectors  where incentives seem to be much  greater. And the president of the  Institution of Engineers of Ireland,  Mr. Finbarr Callanan, warned last  night that the trend would continue  unless the local authorities and the  public service urgently up-dated their   old administrative structures.   INDUSTRY  Mr. Callanan, whose organization  represents 2,500 of the 3,500  engineers in the country, said last  night that about 250 engineers per  year were graduating for our  universities.   Ireland is advancing industrially at  a great rate, but we still have the  smallest number of engineers per  1,000 of population of -all the  developed countries of the world,  he  said.  The majority of our engineers  are employed the public sector-  something which is not the case in  more highly industrialised countries.   But the trend is changing and  engineers find a lack of fulfillment  now in the public service, where they  feel they have been tied to old  administrative structures geared to an  ongoing, rather than a  forward-looking structure,  Mr.  Callanan said.  The Institution, he said, had  submitted proposals of various kinds  to the Department of Local  Government and two reports-the  Donovan Report and the Clerkin  Report-on the restructuring of local  authorities had also been submitted.   No action has been taken,  Mr.  Callanan added.  With the increasing  industrialisation, he said, young  engineers were  very reluctant  to go  into local authority structures, where  there was limited advancement, when  they could go into the private sector  where they had a better future.   There is a big number of vacancies  in local authorities at the moment,   said Mr. Callanan. Twenty years ago,  a local authority position was a very  prized one, indeed, but not any more.  Mr. Callanan said Waterford's  problem was not by any means  peculiar. His organization had had  reports of a similar position in various  parts of the country, including  Dublin.  We have heard of these  problems from all over-and I am sure  the Minister, Mr. Tully, is hearing  them regularly, too,  he said.  Commenting on the increased  estimates for the 1975 financial year  for Waterford City and county, acting  city manager Mr. Doody said that a  serious aspect of the entire  development programmes was the  critical shortage of engineering staff.  This continued to impede progress in  many services and unless the staffing  position improved it would be  difficult to fulfil the entire  programme.  Mr. Doody said that with a total  budget for 1975 in excess of 5.3  million pounds it was imperative that  this staffing problem should continue  to receive close attention and it was a  matter which the Department of  Local Government should consider  very seriously.  The Waterford Co. Manager, Mr.  O'Connor, said the County Council  was equally concerned about the  situation and both he and Mr. Doody  had advertised extensively over the  past six months to recruit civil  engineers but the response so far has  been most unsatisfactory.  No improvement in this respect  was expected until conditions and  incentives had been made more  attractive for engineers in the public  sectors, Mr. O'Connor added.  Gl Insurance P  l  ies  BRONX, N.Y. - Many veterans  allow their Gl insurance policies to  lapse because of neglect rather than  intent, according to Frank V. Votto,  Director, New York State Division of  Veterans' Affairs.  A number of them, he said,  develop the habit of riding the grace  period for premium payments. Then,  NUTRITION  Continued from Page 15  Department of Health, who brought  some cool Civil Service caution to Dr.  Doyle's advocacy of a national  nutrition council. It would be very  difficult, he said, for the Department  of Health to undertake an education      or publicity programme in respect of  nutrition. For one thing it was  difficult to convince people to eat  things other than what they liked to  eat. For another, there would have to  be one education policy for the rich  and another for the poor.  Further, the Department might  find itself in conflict with many other  national interests like Bord Bainneor  the Pigs and Bacon Commission. And  finally, Dr. Hensey suggested, it  would be difficult to advocate a  particular nutritional policy when the  doctors themselves were frequently in  a state of disagreement on just what  nutrition was best. He wondered if it  might not be more realistic for the  Department of Health to aim at  trying to change the whole way of life  (by, for instance, encouraging people  to take more exercise) rather than  concentrating soley on nutrition. This  was the sort of question, he added,  which the proposed health education  bureau would be asked to look into.  Other speakers on Saturday night  were Dr. Harry O'Flanagan, registrar  of the College of Surgeons, who  spoke on progress in the building of  the new college in York Street, and  Dr. A. H. G. Love, professor of  experimental medicine in Queen's  , University,  .Belfast  they forget to mail their payment  before the deadline, unknowingly  allowing their policies to lapse.  This lapse often occurs, the  Director noted, just when a veteran's  family needs adequate insurance  protection.  Director Votto urged area veterans,   hooked on this habit,  to overcome  it by bringing premium payments up  to date and by making future  payments before the grace period.  He also reminded veterans to  include their mailing address and  insurance policy number with all  correspondence concerning their  government insurance. This, he said,  will insure prompt and proper  attention to their inquiries.  The Director invited veterans  seeking information on the various Gl  insurance programs to visit the local  counseling center of the New York  State Division of Veterans' Affairs  located at 310 E. Kingsbridge Road or  1910 Monterey Ave. or call  584-3274,731-8070.  Thanksgiving Eve  Benefit For  Legal Aid  BRONX, N.Y.-ln Baltimore,  Maryland, on July 8, 1974, four men  accused of transporting guns from  Maryland to New York and intended  for the North of Ireland were  sentenced to prison terms of six years  each despite pleas that they had  committed no crime against the  United States. The four men have  since been referred to as the   Baltimore Four.  The four are  James Conlon, resident of Queens,  N.Y.; Kiernan F. McMahon, resident      of Silver Springs, Maryland; Harry1     Hillik, resident of Washington, D.C; '  and Francis M. Larkin, resident of  Riverdale, Maryland.  During the trial, Defense Attorney  Frank Durkin of the firm of O'Dwyer    Bernstein told U.S. District Judge  Edward S. Northrop that 'Their  brothers and sisters are dying and  they felt they should respond to a cry  for help.  Indeed, Mr. Conlon had  given expression to the motivations of  the four men when he declared during  the trial that  Someone has to help  our people.  At the trial Judge  Northrop said that  I find it difficult  to sentence you men, because  although you have violated the law,  you are not criminals in the true  sense.  However, since sentencing the  four men have received unusually  harsh and punitive treatment. They  were first kept in solitary  confinement, then sent to four  separate maximum security prisons in  various parts of the country, and their  right to attend Mass was suspended  for a time.  Great hardship is placed on the  families of the men in that their  efforts to exercise their right to visit  the men in prison are very much  thwarted due to traveling expense. In  the case of Mr. Conlon, who resides in  Queens, N.Y. and is confined to  prison in Leavenworth, Kansas, his  wife and four children certainly  cannot look forward to exercising  their visiting rights.  Additional and very alarming  harassment has been meted out to Mr.  Conlon and Mr. Hillik. They have  been put under threat of deportation  if they do not cooperate with  government agents who have visited  them in prison.  An appeal on behalf of these men  will be made in mid-November. In the  hope of defraying some of the costs  of legal defense and to make it  possible for the men to be visited by  their families, Bronx Division of the  Irish-American Legal.Aid Fund will  hold a dance on Thanksgiving Eve,  November 27th, at Gaelic Park  Casino. Honoary chairmen of the  dance are Michael Gorman and Phil  Brennan, the Chairman is Jim O'Gara.  Music at the dance will be donated  by the Hibernians. Admission to the  dance is  5.00 per person. For tickets  and information please call 367-7128  or 242-1765.  On this Thanksgiving Eve, please  come and show your support of those  who are giving so much for Freedom.   ?  CO  O  H  X  m  O)  WOOLSIDi  Featuring  SIZZLING  STEAK  DINNERS  and  A Complete  Menu  MUSIC  FRI., SAT.  and SUN.  Open 7 Days  A Week.  STEAKIKMJSE  'THE PLACE TO EAT IN QUEENS   61st Street and Roosevelt Avenue, Woodside  OPEN FOR LUNCH AND DINNER  429-9354  PROPRIETOR JOE CORNYN  MUSIC AND ENTERTAINMENT  THURSDAY-FRIDAY  SATURDAY AND SUNDAY  
        