OCTOBER 31.1992  CLINTON REAFFIRMS IRISH STANCE  With little more than a week  remaining until the Presidential  election, Democratic candidate  Bill Clinton reiterated his  strong pro-Irish stance, first  taken last April at the Irish  American Issues Forum.  Clinton, in a strongly worded statement  read by former Connecticut Congressman  Bruce Morrison, pledged support for a  special envoy to meet with all parties to the  conflict, supported the MacBride Principles,  and demanded safeguards against British  Crown forces' violence and collusion with  loyalist paramilitaries.  Clinton's statement was cheered by Irish  Americans, including members of Irish  Northern Aid, at a Clinton-Gore rally held  on October 23rd,in New York. Clinton's  position has already been strongly criticized  by the British government. Clinton noted,   The lasting contributions of the Irish-  American community are what have helped  make this country strong. Ireland has given  so much to our country, we owe a special  debt in return. We commend the Democratic  leaders in Congress who acted to end the  history of discrimination against Ireland  and other nations in our immigration laws.  And we will work to ensure that political  considerations do not hinder the workings  of our courts in asylum cases.   SPECIAL ENVOY  Clinton then referred to the current round  of negotiations taking place in Ireland and  said,  A Clinton Administration will take a  more active role in working with the leaders  in these nations to achieve a just and lasting  setdement of the conflict. A permanent and  peaceful solution to the crisis in northern  Ireland can only be achieved if the  underlying causes of the strife and  instability are dealt with vigorously, fairly  and within a time-frame that guarantees  genuine, substantial, and steady progress. I  believe that appointment of a US special  envoy to northern Ireland could be a catalyst  Bill Clinton  in the effort to secure a lasting peace.   MACBRIDE  Turning to the MacBride Principles,  Clinton said,  We believe that the British  government must do more to oppose the iob  discrimination      tha*       u ? ?  unemployment levels tw   and a half times  higher for Catholic workers   in Protestant  workers. There can be no lastly setdement  in northern Ireland until such discrimination  is ended. The MacBride Principles set forth  appropriate guidelines for investment to  help achieve these goals.   About the British shoot-to-kill policy and  collusion, the candidate said,  We also  believe that the British government must  establish effective safeguards against the  wanton use of lethal force and against  xaiuici collusion between  h?  ec?*ri v fsic   forces and Protestant paramilitary groups.   The Democratic frontrunner in the race  for the White House is on a collision course  with Britain over his Irish policy. If he wins  the presidential poll on November 3rd, it  could rupture the  special relationship   between Britain and the United States. Mr.  Clinton* s candidacy has been backed by  Sinn l;6in president (ierry Adams.  Mayor of Boston Raymond Flynn has  campaigned widely for Mr. Clinton among  Irish Americans, building support for the  governor's position on Ireland. Mr. Flynn  described the role Of a United Slates special  peace envoy to northern Ireland as  an  Impartial broker who would help spur on a  genuine peace process.   Mr Hynn was named as a possible choice  for the position by Mr. Clinton at a New  York lundraising event at tlie weekend.  The envoy plan has been coolly received  by Secretary of State Patrick Mayhew. lie  was quoted in the London Independent las   week as saying,  We do not need a peace  envoy, thank you very much,   adding  tersely,  What we need is a setdement as a  result of the talks process.   SINN FEIN  Sinn F6in President Gerry Adams,  commenting on Presidential candidate  Governor Bill Clinton's statement on the  conflict in Ireland, said,  I welcome  Governor BUI Clinton's commitment to  promote theall-importantobjectiveof peace  in Ireland by addressing the causes of the  conflict so as to eradicate them.   The British government's refusal to do  that in the current talks is the clearest  indication possible that creating the  conditions which make peace possible is not  on its agenda..   GovernorClinton'sacknowledgmentof  the British government's wanton use of  lethal force in its shoot-to-kill policy and  of the collusion between British forces and  loyalist murder gangs is a welcome censure  of the British government by a major  international political figure.   Likewise, Governor Clinton's support  for the MacBride Principles is welcome and  necessary additional political pressure from  the United States on the British government  to adopt effective measures to eradicate  disc imination in employment, an issue  upon which, as the recently leaked DED  documents demonstrate, current policy and  legislation has had no significant  positiveimpact.  Irish Northern Aid and the IRISH  PEOPLE Newspaper had previously  endorsed Governor Clinton.  muiMHiiiMiiMm  i  am,   
        