OCTOBER 31,1992  THE IRISH PEOPLE  PAGE 12  Albany INA Testimonial Dinner  John Sweeney  receives  award from  State AFL-  Cl() President  Ed Cleary  INA Dinner Held in Troy  The 2nd annual New York State Irish Northern Aid testimonial  was held October 17th at Mario's Restaurant in Troy, New York,  hosted by the Dan McCann unit, Capital District INA. Nearly  300 supporters remembered the British butchery of Bloody Sunday  and honored five people for their courage and leadership in the  struggle for Irish peace and justice.  Accepting the James Heaney Award, Congressman Gary Ackerman  related his encounter with a British diplomat on the Capitol steps shortly  alter his announcement that he would be happy to provide Joe Doherty  with a job as part of his bail condition.  How would it feel to work with  a convicted murderer in your office?  inquired the diplomat. Responded  the Congressman,  How does it  feel to work in the British 1 Embassy  with murderers with no  convictions?   John Sweeney, international  president of tlie Service  Employees Union, invoked tlie  spirit of James Connolly in  accepting the award named for  him, which Maureen McKenna  Armstrong, former editor of the  Irish People and recipient of the  Maud Cionne MacBride Award,  recalled her own encounters with  the forces of tlie crown, in all of  which she prevailed .The audience  was   equally   touched   by   the  lifelong sacrifices and dedicationof Joe  Mitchell and Joe McIIale, who  received the Thomas McGuire and  Liam Ryan Awards respectively.  Award presenters included Edward  Cleary, NY State President AFL-CIO,  Nc w Y ork Assemblyman Joe Crowley,  and Bob McCann, Martin Calvin and  Paul Murray, National INA leaders.  Prominent Albany attorney Robert  Roche was again master of ceremonies.  Also on the dais were Albany INA I Jnit  head Denis Mciadden, Chaplain Fr.  James Hayes and dinner co-  chairpersons Michael Cummings and  Patsy Mulvey.  Dr. John McCrath, vice president  of Mercy (Jollege and professor of law,  gave an inspiring keynote address  which included a scholarly  confirmation of the legitimacy of the  armed struggle for freedom when all  other peaceful means have failed.  (  gt;-chairpersons Michael  Cummings and Patsy Mulvey  announced that they are already hard  at work planning next year* s New York  State INA testimonial.  Joe Mcliale  receives  award from  Martin  Galvin  Maureen McKenna Armstrong  and Bob McCann  I hi Voice oi Irish Repcrucasism is America   
        