OCTOBER 31,1992  THE IRISH PEOPLE  ROBINSON DEMANDS SINN FEIN BAN  Sinn F  in has said that if Ian  Paisley's Democratic Unionist Party  deputy Peter Robinson were to apply  his interpretation of the law to his  own party, he would be arguing for  the DUP to be banned.  Belfast councillor Mairtin ()  Muilleoir was replying to a call by  Robinson for Sinn F6in to be proscribed.  Robinson had given British Secretary  Patrick Mayhew a 24-page dossier  which argues the case for such a ban.  Robinson said that the dossier showed  that Sinn F6in was  welded indivisibly   to the IRA.  It also emerged that Sinn F6in has been  preparing a dossier on the DUP which it  intends releasing to the media next week.  Mr. O Muilleoir referred to what he  called the hypocrisy of Peter Robinson and  his    party.     The    DUP's    record    of  involvement    with  loyalistparamilitary  groups began with  the foundation of the  party. Thatcollusion  was   clearly   seen  during    the    1974  loyalist strike,  Paisley's    abortive  1977    strike,    the  mountaintop  exploits of Paisley,  the   foundation   of  Ulster    Resistance,  and    much    more  besides,     Mr.    O  Muilleoir said.  Robinson told a press conference that  Sinn F n was the IRA s partner and  accomplice. He said the evidence more than  met the basic legal requirements for the  Peter Robinson, In beret,  of Loyalist paramilitary  outlawing of Sinn F6in. Mayhew will  shortly outline in Parliament his case for the  recent outlawing of the loyalist Ulster  Defence Association. Robinson said it  would be difficult for Mayhew to defend tlie  decision not to do the same to Sinn F6in.   He is going to have to convince the  House of Commons that he is acting in  northeast Ireland in an even-handed,  balanced way. In a society which is divided,  you cannot act in a way which clearly  indicates that you abhor violence from one  side of tlie community but you are prepared  to close your eyes to violence from tlie  other,  Robinson said.  The British Northern Ireland Office said  it was studying the DUP document on Sinn  F6in but added,  The evidence is that Sinn  F6in is not an organization which is actively  and primarily engaged in the commission  of criminal terrorist acts   that is tlie  criterion which government applies when  proscribing organizations,   Protesters Issue Broadcasting Ban Challenge  an early meeting to discuss a review of the  ban.  Central TV studios in Birmingham were  picketed by members of the Tnxips Out  Movement protesting against the  broadcasting ban on Sinn F n,  Spokesperson Mary Pearson said,  We  believe that unless the views of everyone  in tlie conflict in northeast Ireland are  listened to, there will never be peace.*1  lour Derry Sinn Fftin councillors staged  an occupation of Radio Foyle's studios in  protest    of    what     they     called    tlie  udemonization and vilification  of their  members by tlie broadcasting ban. Hugh  Brady. Barney McFadden, Dodie  McGuiiiness, and Gcaroid () hHara entered  the Foyle Building just before 1:00 p.m.  They passed through a security check by  pretending that they had business with a  reporter, then slipped quickly into the  studios. Meanwhile, outside the station gate  a group of Sinn Fein supporters mounted a  picket. Thfi station was forced 10 cancel its  Newsdesk at One program, which was  replaced by Radio Ulster s Newsbreak.  Sinn Fein Pledges to  Continue Talks with Churchmen  I  Protest outside the BBC  Journalists have been urged by Sinn  Fein to break the law and ignore the  British government ban on  broadcasting comments by the  party's members.  Sinn F  in councillors joined party  President Gerry Adams and Ard-  Chomhairle member Jim Gibney in a  demonstration outside BBC headquarters in  Belfast's Ormeau Avenue. The  demonstrators marked the anniversary of the  ban imposed by the then British Home  Secretary Douglas Hurd by handing in a  letter of protest to Broadcasting House.  Derry City councillor Mitchel  McLaughlin said that the ban was initially  opposed by the National Union of  Journalists, the Independent Broadcasting  Authority and the BBC. He said that John  Bird, the BBC director general in 1988,  promised to lobby MPs and  take the  argument to the public through newspapers  and public appearances.    Sinn F6in is challenging the  broadcasters and broadcasting journalists to  state exactly what opposition they have  mounted or intend to mount against the  directives.   We must also complain to broadcasters  that in operating the ban, they have been  over-stringent and over-cautious in its  interpretation. There have been many  occasions when Sinn F  in could have been  interviewed on social and economic matters  but was not. In those rare instances where  our spokespersons were interviewed, it was  often only as aresult of incessant lobbying,   said Mr. McLaughlin.  Referring to the recent sub-titling of  comments by former MP Bernadette  McAliskey on a BBC television program,  Mr.McLaughlinsaidthatself-censorshipby  broadcasters had taken over where official  censorship left off.  'The interpretation of tlie ban appears  to be becoming even more restrictive as self-  censorship and fear of criticism from tlie  political establishment Uikes a stronger  grip   Calling on broadcasting journalists to reexamine their opposition to the ban, Mr.  McLaughlin said,  The best challenge that  they could make to this authoritarian  directive is, of course, to break the ban.   Only when the broadcasters find the  courage to do that will opposition be  galvanized and the British government  forced to restore to the British public their  right to freedom of information.   A BBC spokesman said that director  general Michael Checkland had written to  Heritage Secretary Peter Brooke, asking for  Sinn Fdin  leaders and  Presbyterian  churchmen have  promised to  persevere in  their  peace   talks.  The pledge  followed a meeting  between Sinn F6in  President Gerry  Adams and  Chairman Tom  Hartley, and former  moderators Dr. Jack  PI  1      i B      j  * 1  J   '.  Weir  Tom Hartley seated along with Mitchell McLaughlin  and  Godfrey Brown.  The two sides said they would continue  talks despite differences between them. In  a statement they  reaffirmed that the search  for peace demanded continuing and  persevering dialogue together.  The  churchmen said they were convinced that  peace-making was a special obligation on  any church which sought to follow Christ  as prince of peace.  The joint statement said:  Any progress,  humanly speaking, depended on a reduction  and, if possible, a speedy ending to tlie  present violence in our society, which  placed such a barrier in the way of  understanding and strengthenedaresistance  among so many to fruitful dialog.   Mr.  Adams called on  churches  to  develop a  peace strategy . He said,  As a  first step in apeace process, the Presbyterian  Church should embrace the principle of  inclusive dialog.   Sinn F6in sources said the talks were   useful ; they were not a short-term process  but part of a long-term one.  In a separate statement, Mr. Adams  criticized Church of Ireland Primate Dr.  Robin Frames. He said there was a  contradiction between the primate's claim  that he supported dialog and his rejection  of Sinn F6in*s participation in talks. The  archbishop had  a clear moral  responsibility  to support an  inclusive  dialog .  The Voice oe Irish Rei gt;i rijcasism is America   
        