   CL  O  LU  CL   c   2  E  LU  x  o  The Persecution  Of Eamon McThomas  Guerilla War News   -  o  2  By FRED BURNS O'BRIEN  In the 1770's in the British  colonies, the American press was  dutifully suppressed by the British  authorities for purporting to publish  ideas on liberty, most of which were  concocted in the mind of Englishman  Thomas Paine, famous for his  phamphlet COMMON SENSE, a  virtue the British never possessed. It  was the persistent American  broadsides perpetuating the ideal of  freedom that sustained the rebel army  in the most trying times. In the  bleakest hours of the fledging  Republic, the populace could depend  on the dissemination of the free word  giving hope courage and bouying  hampered spirits. Britain feared the  power of the written and spoken  word as they do in their colonies  today, and this on a parrallel with  rebel marksmen.  An editor of a newspaper plays a  most crucial role in a struggle for the  realization of self-determination being  the intermediary between military  and civilian groupings, maintaining  the inertia of both. Eamonn Mac  Thomais, editor of AN PHOBLACHT,  the newspaper of Provisional Sinn  Fein in Ireland is a man analagous in  role to Thomas Paine. Mr. Mac  Thomais with limited resources and a  limited staff faithfully produced and  published the weekly periodical,  reporting the events of the struggle  for freedom in both portions of  Ireland.  Approximately two years ago, Mr.  Mac Thomais was arrested by the  Irish Special Branch and charged  under the AMENDMENT TO THE  OFFICERS AGAINST THE STATE  ACT (1972) as belonging to an illegal  organization. There is no legal means  possible of disproving such charge  should one wish to do so, when the  state has prejudged guilt by the very  fact of such suppressive legislation,  the handiwork of an undemocratic  nation and government.  Upon his release, Mr. Mac Thomais  resumed his duties as editor of AN  PHOBLACHT and not be be deterred,  he once again lashed out in editorials  at    the    inequities    in    Ireland  perpetuated in the North by Britain  and in the Free State by the Cosgrave  Administration. The truth of his  statements and the growth of  readership of his newspaper was a  detriment to both governmental  organs working as a team to terminate  the Republican Movement and to  keep Ireland partitioned. Much to the  chagrin of London and Dublin, the  Movement has grown, and at each  turn of oppression more people are  realizing that the Eamonn Mac  Thomais's, the Daithi O'Connail's, the  Maire Drumm's, and the Ruairi  O'Bradaigh's are not only correct in  their purusits, but the only faction  telling the truth to the people. The  truth is such a rare commodity that it  shocks the conscience of an ordinary  citizen upon realization that such a  virtue still exists.  Needless to say, Mr. Mac Thomais  has been re-arrested on the exact  same charge and given another  identical 15 month jail term for  belonging to an illegal organization by  way of possession of incriminating  documents. Simple justice has been  rendered a severe blow by this  incoherent action. Under English  Common Law which the Dublin  Government has adopted as its basis  of law, there is such an entity known  as  Double Jeopardy.  For those  Dublin Ministers in ignorance, this  means bluntly that one cannot be  tried for the same offense twice. This  is precisely what the Free State has  done in the Mac Thomais case.  The credibility of Dublin is suspect  when it flaunts justice so selectively  that it would intentionally perpetrate  such an abrasion of legality in the  realm of double jeopardy. The double  arrest and double encarceration of  Eamonn Mac Thomais is an abuse of  legal process to say the least and an  arbitrary utilization of justice for the  political purpose of the state.This act  of desperation emits an air of doom  for a system fraught with such  depredations to render it inept in the  normal course of things that such  extraordinary debauchery must be  implemented to protect itself from  the truth.   1 ( 11111111111111111111S B11B Q19 B B13161E11  U118111S111111BIE111 f  E11IJ   I MARY'S I      TRAVEL AGENCY    1      43-02 30th AVENUE, ASTORIA, N.YORK 11103       1      AIR-SHIP-BUS TOURS      1  1 CAR RENTAL-HOTELS 1  S     PHONE-212-726-7760   10 a.m. to 6 P.m.  212-335-0281    7P.M.T--  o  m.  The evening sun breaks through the smoke of burning vehicles as rioting broke out afresh on the Falls  Road in Belfast. Across the road is a barricade of barrels from a hi-jacked beer lorry.  BORDER GUN BATTLE  A six-man Provisional-I.R.A. unit  were involved in a gun battle with  British troops manning a checkpoint  along the Armagh-Monaghan border.  A British Army spokesman claimed  that one of the attackers was seen to  fall but this claim was denied by the  Provisionals. In a statement the  Provisionals said that the attack on  the British Army was carried out by  the Provisionals' 2nd Battalion in  North Armagh.  The claim that a  'gunman' was hit was a complete  fabrication by the British Army to'  conceal the fact that they suffered at  least one casualty during the  exchange.   U.D.R. PATROL UNDER  FIRE IN FERMANAGH  A four-man Ulster Defence  Regiment foot patrol came under fire  on the Gortineddan border between  Derrylin and Ballyconnell. The men  were on observation duty when they  heard a noise about 100 yards away  and fired an illumination flare. Two  men, using automatic weapons, fired  60-70 rounds at them. The U.D.R.  patrol returned the fire. No hits were  claimed on either side.  BUSES BURN AS SNIPERS  OPEN FIRE IN DERRY  Bus services to Shantallow were  suspended after a bus was hijacked  and burned near the estate. Three  young men boarded it at Racecourse  Road and after ordering the driver  and passengers off, set fire to the bus.  A crowd of about 50 people danced  around the burning vehicle. At the  same time an Army patrol came  under sniper fire.  SOLDIERS INJURED IN  BOOBY TRAP EXPLOSION  ' A five-man Army patrol was called  to search an unoccupied house after  an anonymous tip off that men had  been seen entering the house the  night before. The house was in the  Meadowbrook Estate in Craigavon,  Co. Armagh. Two of the soldiers were  searching a cupboard in an upstairs  room when a bomb went off injuring  one of them severely about the face  and legs. The second soldier escaped  with minor injuries.  LANDMINE ATTACK     IN CROSSMAGLEN  In Crossmaglen, Co. Armagh an  Army foot patrol narrowly escaped  injury when alandmine exploded on  the Dundalk Road. The bomb  contained about 20 lbs. of explosives  and the Provisional I.R.A. in the area  accepted responsibility.  BLAST BOMBS, GUNFIRE  AND HI-JACKING IN DERRY  An Army foot patrol escaped  unhurt when two blast bombs were  thrown at them in the Creggan area.  Twenty minutes later a number of  shots were fired at another patrol  nearby. Again no one was hurt.  Civilians hijacked a bus and used it to  block Buncrana Road at Racecourse  Road junction.  BOMB ATTACK AND SNIPER  FIRE IN BELFAST  A   blast-bomb   was   thrown   at  Andersonstown poljr* -*    ;p gt;n t*om  outside the high perimeter fence.  Twelve high-velocity shots were fired  at troops from the junction of  Dunmore Street-Clonard Street, an  Army spokesman said. There were no  casualties and the soldiers returned  the fire. An incendiary was found in a  store on the Ballysillan Road after a  small fire caused slight damage.  BRITISH ARMY BOMB  MAIN RAIL LINE IN ERROR  The Belfast-Dublin  Enterprise   rail service shuddered to an  unscheduled stop when halted by an  Army bomb boob. The military  explosives operation which went  slightly wrong started at about 3:00  p.m. on a narrow border road near  Newry. The Army's tactical boffins  reckoned that the road was being  used for the illegal trafficking of  arms. So they ordered it to be  cratered. As the army detonated the  explosives supervised by railway  officials great chunks of border road  rocketed up into the air - and  plunged down on to the railway  track. That put paid to North-South  rail traffic on that particular stretch.  CLE. in the South and Northern  Ireland Railways in the North had o  implement a  bussing  service linking  their Dundalk and Portadown train  terminals to get passengers up and  down from Dublin.  PROVISIONALS APOLOGISE  TO LOYALIST INTERNEES  AT LONG KESH  The Ulster Defence Association has  received a letter of apology from the  Provisional I.R.A. commander in  Long Kesh, Dave Morley,  for  inconvenience and suffering  to  U.D.A. men as a result of the recent  fire in Long Kesh.  Morley also makes it clear in the  letter that the Provisionals are  accepting full responsibility for the  damage in the Camp and that they  have made representations to the  Northern Ireland Office In an attempt  to exonerate UDA men from the  destruction at the camp.   I have informed them that your  men were not responsible for the  burning of any huts and so they  should not be denied visits, and that  every effort should be made to ease  your conditions before the conditions  of the Provos  Morley says.  CUSTOMS POST AND  GARAGE BOMBED IN DERRY  A bomb planted by three men, one  of them armed with a pistol,  destroyed a customs caravan at  Buncrana Road. Staff had been  ordered out and no one was hurt.  About the same time three other  men* one armed, left a bomb at the  patrol pumps of McLaughlin's garage,  also on the Buncrana Road. The  bomb exploded about 20 minutes  later causing superficial damage but a  warning had been given and no one  was injured.  In Creggan, a group of about seven  people tried.to grab a. rifle from a  soldier who fired a shot to free  himself. An Army spokesman said the  incident occurred during a follow-up  operation after a shot had been heard  in the Central Drive area.  BRITISH ARMY  BARRACKS BOMBED  Two soldiers were killed and many  more seriously injured when a bomb  exploded at the fringe of the 80 acre  British Army Camp at Ballykinlar,  Co. Down. A Ford Transit van,  packed with explosives had been left  parked across the road from where  more than 100 off-duty soldiers were  having a mid-morning tea-break.  The vehicle had been hi-jacked by  two armed men in the  Andersonstown area of Belfast and it  'was learned that the driver had been  warned not to inform the police. The  Provisional I.R.A. at Castlewellan  accepted responsibility for the blast.  About 600 soldiers are based at  Ballykinlar and the headquarters of  the local Ulster Defence Regiment  battalion are also there. Apart from  one gunfire attack and two mortar  bombs being aimed at it, the I.R.A.  have kept away from the camp. The  two soldiers who died were named as  Private Michael Swanick(20) from  Birkenhead and Lance Corporal Alan  Coughlan (22) from Newport.  CLASHES AT   TROOPS OUT RALLY  Trouble flared between police and  demonstrators on October 27th at a  London rally demanding British  withdrawal from Northern Ireland.  Arrests were made after scuffling  broke out minutes after the 2,000  demonstrators reached Temple Green  off Victoria Embankment following a  three-mile march through Central  London.  Trouble began after one man was  arrested. Within minutes punches  were being thrown and running  scuffles developed as police made  further arrests. Brian Grogan, an  organiser said:  Prova-.  cateurs -Special Branch men and  right-wingers deliberately started  scuffling in the crowd.   The marchers were demanding the  pull out of British troops together  with self determination for the Irish  people as a whole.  Miss Joan Maynard, the Left Wing  Labour M.P. for Sheffield Brightside,  and three other delegates - including  another Labour M.P. Mr. Stan Thome  - handed a letter listing the demands  into 10 Downing Street.  Miss Maynard said:  I am not  asking for troops to be pulled out  next week or next month but we  must set a date and I think it should  be sooner rather than later. Britain  began the Irish problem but will never  be able to solve it.   Bainbridge Deli  2641 Bainbridge Ave.  236 f. HWb Sfrwt      Muuul Stated  * CATERING  FOR BIL OCCASIONS  PHOMfc FC 4-3432  Briggs  Deli  ill Deli  2346 G-nhill Road  
        