OCTOBER 31,1992  THE IRISH PEOPLE  BELFAST PERSPECTIVE  Fr. Dks Wilson  MULTINATIONAL  LINKS  British strategy to keep military and  economic control of the northeast of  Ireland now includes creating  trading links between 4tnorth  and   south''. One has to put this into  context.  Many years ago, the British government  was able lo hold the area by  planting   settlersandindustries.Hventually,however,  especially in the 70s and '80s, tlie British  economy became impoverished, and many  Of these industries could DO longer be kept  in Ireland, the British government then  made a bid to get American, Dutch and  French companies into the north, with  generous allowances and giants. These  companies were to provide what British  companies had done in the past: bring some  jobs, but impermanent industrialization.  The one tlun  that had to be avoided at  all costs was encouraging native Irish  industry in the area. If British industry could  not be successfully planted any longer, then  mainland European, American or Japanese  industry would do. Such foreign investment  would depend on British subsidies and  would come and go according to market  needs   and the Irish would liave no control  over their coming, their going or their  staying.  MULTINATIONAL  Today there is enormous competition for  such international and multinational  companies. The British government, with  its hold on Ireland becoming more and more  insecure (and with increasing poverty at  home making the government think about  future deploymentof its troops on the streets  of Liverpool, Cardiff and Glasgow rather  than Belfast), is now looking to other means  of filling its industrial needs in Ireland's  northeast.  BURDEN  Two things are important. One is to  reduce tlie financial burden which tlie  northeast represents for the British; another  is to reduce tlie need to have English,  Scottish and Welsh tnx)ps there. They have  tried to ensure that whatever fighting is done  in Ireland will be done by Irish. The B  Specials became the UDR, which became  ajCIrislTregimentdeployed in the forefront  of whatever fighting they cause in Ireland     while their own troops can be brought back  home. That, the British think, will fill tlie  military gap. To fill tlie industrial gap, they  are encouraging  cross-border trade and  cooperation.  Thus, even if the British  industrialists cannot comeand the European  and Americans do not come, somebody will  come.  DUNNE STORES  Ben Dunne will come. The British  government has now realized that with a  southern economy increasingly able tomake  money and engage in international trading,  its best shot is to encourage southern firms  to expand north and northern firms to do  business with the south.  It is not an exercise in democracy or   reconciliation . It is an exercise in making  sure that the northeast, weakened to poverty  by 70 years of inefficient government, still  survives with a minimum of Irish control.  Britain builds on Multinationals  Whether Ben Dunne or anyone else comes  will depend on British decisions. Such  persons may get enticing subsidies or a  bomb through their windows, or both,  depending on prevailing British strategies.  There are problems, however. While  many businesspersons north and south want  simply to do business and are already  overcoming old and once profitable barriers  of sectarianism in order to do so, local  politicians are not keeping pace with their  thinking. Many firms have already formed  north/soutliconnections,butBritishunionist  politicians in the northeast are intellectually  and by training and culture incapable of  thinking about economics.  The SDLP's John Hume thinks in terms  of Euro economics and imported  capital. Gerry Adams thinks in terms  of Irish internal economics as the  mainstay of future independence,  with Europe and America as icing on  what could be a substantial cake. But  the British unionists   Paisley,  Molyneaux, Maginnis, etc.   have  never been known to create an  economic plan or put forward an idea  about the economy of Ireland, or even  of the northeast.  GAPS  The intellectual incapability is now  being recognized as a major  impediment to the British plan to fill  up the gaps in Ireland's northeast with  industry which, even if it is  unavoidably Irish-based, is  nevertheless under the ultimate  control of nobody within the British-  occupied zone except the British  themselves.  British unionists have not noticed  that in spite of their anti-Catholic  campaigns, Ben Dunne has come in  from  the south  to buy Wellworths,  thus becoming one of the northeast's  biggest employers, while Bombardier of  Quebecown Shorts, another large employer.  Like others who are now coming into the  stagnant commercial and industrial scene of  the  northeast,   they  are  Catholics.   As  commercial operators, they are no better and  no worse for that.  One feels neither elation nor depression  at their coming. One feels depression at the  fact that the British unionists cannot deal  intellectually with this or anything else that  is happening to them. They have been left  too long with no thinking to do.  IRISH LEADERS BACK ALBANESE  Irish American leaders gathered  on October 26, 1992 at New York  City Hall to formally endorse Sal  Albanese, the I )emocratic  candidate for the House of  Representatives in new York's  13th Congressional District.  Albanese, a Democratic New York  City  lt;    ouncil member, has served in the  City Council since 1982, earning a  reputation as a an outspoken leader on  Irish issues. He was the first municipal  ;lator in the United States to spons lt;    the MacBride principles. Alhanese is  challenging the Incumbent  congressmember, Susan Molinari  Martin Galvin. die General Counsel o   Irish Northern Aid Committee, said.    It is  seldom noted that Brooklyn City Council  member Sal Albanese introduced the fust  MacBride Principle's Bill Is New York  CU) l le was among the first to support Joe  Doherty. He condemned the murders of  Sinn fern woikcis and iuiiixluccd City  Council bills on the  Winchester Rucc'   plastic bullets. Sinn lein s  Scenario for  Peace   a d  a  multitude  of  other   Irish  Sal Albanese  concerns. Many  council members in  New York now have  taken a a strong  position on Irish  issues only because  Sal Albanese led the  way. His opponent  Susan Molinari has  taken no real position  on Irish issues. Elect  Sal Albanese to  Congress    Jack Irwin,  Nationallmmigration  Director of tlie  Ancient Order of  Hibernians, added,   Sal was in the  forefront when there  was a battle to secure  New York City  funding for irish  immigrant assistant  centers. He has  always been there for  the Irish-American  community   AlO'Hagan, with  the A.O.H. and the 1986 New York Saint  Patrick's Day Parade Grand Marshall, noted  that  Sal has always been there attending  every large and small Irish event over the  past decade. He can do great things for Irish-  Americans in Washington.   The American Irish Congress and the  Emerald Society of the New York City  Transit Police Department have also  endorsed Albanese for Congree.  The director of Irish-Americans for  Albanese, Justin Kelly, said,  Sal has a well-  earned reputation among Irish-Americans as  a leader on issues of concern to our  community. He was the first municipal  legislator in the nation to sponsor the  MacBride Principles. He was a leading  supporter of Joe Doherty. Indeed, while he  was the only member of the Council to vote  against a resolution supporting Doherty.   Kelly added,  She has done absolutely  nothing on Irish issues. Frankly, her record  is a disaster which reflects her lack of  interest in our community.   Albanese is running for the  Congressional seat which encompasses all  of Staten Island as well as the Bay Ridge,  Dyker Heights, BensonhurstandCrravesend  neighborhoods of Brooklyn.  The Voice oi Irish Repi hi icasism is America   
        