Letters to the Editor       Taking Sides' With Britain  Two Bishops, Dr. Philibin and Dr.  Buchanan have recently asked the  people of Ireland to co-operate with  what they have euphemistically  termed the  Security Forces  in  occupied Ireland.  Like appeals were made in Norway  and France during World War II.  From time to time certain Free  State politicians, notably Doctors  Conor Cruise O'Brien and FitzGerald  also request co-operation with the  same so-called  security forces  in  the North from their rather safe  havens in Howth and Ballsbridge. A  look at the composition of this   security force  so dear to certain  people in high places may not be  amiss.  Basically what are cosily called the   Security Forces  consist of the  following:: The R.U.C. and their  Special Branch, mainly drawn from  ex-B Specials; the U.D.R., a sectarian  civilian force, para-military by nature,  many of its members doubling with  extreme Loyalist militants such as the  U.V.F., the U.F.F., the  Red Hand ,  the Tartan gangs, etc., the Crown  Force of Her Majesty's Army, the  more notoriously bigoted and anti  Irish regiments being posted to the  North, along with S.A.S., M.R.F.,  M.I.5., M.I., 6, and  others -all  sinister and underhand agents of the  British Army, also  black-press   Army propagandists (Bishop Tickle  too allowed himself to be used) and  their side-kicks in Fleet Street and the  B.B.C.  Coupled with the above are touts,  drug-pushers, informers and   sleepers,  such as the Littlejohns,  Wyman and Crinnion in the South.  Like it or not this is the  Security  Force  for which certain learned  gentlemen would have us conscript  Irish Gems  November 4,1974  Editor of The Irish People:  John Lonergan's literary gems of  Irish Wisdom does infuse in an  ingenious way, enthusiasm for Ireland  and help for solution of the problems.  Your paper attracts by the qualities  of truthful and sometimes sad current  incidents, which continue to tear the  hearts of the Irish and other events  that give the necessary ingredients for  victory.  William M. Lonergan  Granada Hills,  California  A Derry  Condemnation  The Co. Derry Anti-Internment  Co-ordinating Committee resents and  condemns the political censorship  exercised by the Minister for Posts  and Telegraphs, Dr. Cruise O'Brien,  on the journalists of RTE. In a  democratic state sovereignty resides  with the people. The people have a  right to the information necessary for  the exercise of their sovereignty at  the polls. Suppression of information  on the part of an elected official  therefore constitutes subversion of  the democratic process.  It is particularly important that our  fellow Irishmen be aware of the real  consequences, the privation and  suffering, of internees and their  families while the crime of  internment lasts. As citizens they can  then use the peaceful processes of  diplomacy and parliamentary action  to secure the final elimination of the  concentration camp at Long Kesh.  On the other hand, ignorance  induced in the South, through  censorship, will increase the isolation  and frustration in the North, with  consequent increased violence. It  would seem that Dr. O'Brien's actions  frequently intensify the conflict he  claims to oppose.  B. NOONE  Glen Road  Maghera, Co. Derry  the Irish mind. In this light Dr. Cruise  O'Brien may find it a little less  difficult to understand Senator Mary  Robinson's silence.  Fr. Denis Faul of Dungannon has  been far from being silent. Knowing  only too well the duplicity of the  British Establishment, he has recently  left us in no doubt as to what he  thinks of the R.U.C. as a  security  force ; his remarks make it  abundantly clear that this 95 p.c.  non-Catholic force  secure  their  own.  Of some 160 complaints lodged  against members of the R.U.C. for  brutality and misconduct not one  case of disciplinary action has been  forthcoming. Neither have any  searches been carried out in  safe  areas  for murder squads, in strange  contrast with night and day  harassment in West Belfast. This all  points to one thing-R.U.C. is but a  tool in General King's hand, closing  its ears and eyes when it suits the   pseudo-gang  assassination tactics of  Brigadier Frank Kitson.  Those who call for co-operation  using the Home Office propaganda  tag  security force  call for  co-operation with King and Kitson  and thereby insult the intelligence of  the Irish people.  Perhaps   Bishops   Buchanan   and  Philbin would care to comment on  the source in each of the following:   the  no-warning  anti-civilian  bombing of the Abercorn Restaurant  and McGurk's Bar; the callous 'Taxi  Murders  carried out during the reign  of Whitelaw; the Dublin  Bill  Bombs ; the Dublin-Monaghan plastic  explosions; the so-called  sectarian  murders ; the  no arrests  of those  mysterious and  invisible  murderers;  the  observation posts -assassination  posts uncovered near the homes of  Strasbourg witnesses. The Source in  all these cases could prove mightly  interesting  One presumes that  learned ecclesiastics heard of  Low  Intensity Operations  in Kenya,  Omar and Muscadet.  There is nothing ex-cathedra about  Irish bishops where taking sides with  the Crown Force is concemed-a  Catholic bishop once upon a time  dined with Major Strickland the very  night his native city was burned to  the ground by the  Security Forces.   His people in their own time gave him  his answer.  Evolution is a slow process and  leopards do not change their spots  overnight, nor for that matter over  fifty or sixty or even a hundred years.  Diarmaid 0 Suilleabhain Guaire,  Co. Loch Garman.  Bistops Misuse Irish People  Dear Sir,  I feel compelled to comment on  the latest warning from Bishop  Philbin to the young men of Ireland.  It never ceases to bewilder thoughtful  Irish people that spiritual leaders can  be so devoid of the ordinary'  intellectual and emotional drives  which inspire other Irishmen and lead  them to the primary national  problem, the first order of business  for every concerned citizen of the  nation-the eradication of the chronic  evil afflicting our country for so  long-England's insistence in  dominating the lives of the Irish  people.  John Mitchel, who, as a Derry  Protestant, provides a most striking  contrast to Derry's present Bishop  Daly, wrote that  good government is  the most cunning form of  government . Yet England in her  distain did not show the slightest  consideration towards her Irish slaves.  Well England knew she didn't have  to  The humiliations and savagery  perpetrated on our people should  have been enough to stir them into  total rebellion and complete victory  long ago, if it hadn't been for-the  constant admonition from clerics like  Bishop Philbin and Archbishop Troy  of Dublin, that the gates of hell  waited for those young men who  would 'try it out' with their ancient  enemy. Troy means nothing in Irish  history but Wolfe Tone whom he  tried to nickname  cut-throat Tone ,  is honoured every June by the Irish  people in their thousands. Yes and  even by the present junta of traitors  in Leinster House.  The mere passage of time does not  justify that which was evil in the  beginning. The unlawful usurpation  of any sod of Ireland and it's later  consolidation by thieving settlers,  shepherded by English soldiers would  have been checked and resolved in  1798 but for the interference of the  hierarchy on the side of these British  marauders who scoffed at the laws of  God and man. The Catholic hierarchy  of that day looked on silently,  without protest, at this huge  infringement of the Fifth and Seventh  Commandments of God. Would  Bishop Philbin condemn the men who  fought in the GPO in Dublin in 1916?  After all, Easter Week is as much a  part of this generation as the defense  of the Bogside, in August, 1969. Or  would he dare endorse Archbishop  Troy's slander of brave Tone? Would  he even associate himself with Bishop  Tickle's commendation of the English  murderers who left thirteen young  Derry men motionless in their own  blood?  Too long have the bishops misused  and manipulated the consciences of  the Irish people. Their influence in   every aspect of Irish life is paramount  and had it been identified with the  just, national aspirations of their  people could have contributed to the  achievement of Irish freedom,  centuries ago. These bishops,  however, chose to identify with the  tormentors of their own flocks. They  were not responsible to any Irish  authority but themselves and  therefore never had to give a reason  for their strange teaching that every  other nation was justified in fighting  for freedom from unlawful foreign  domination. But the Irish, they must  remain slaves.  Bishop Philbin   England, France  and America fought for their freedom  at the cost of great loss of life and  THEIR bishops applauded and prayed  for their men. If you cannot likewise  give spiritual succour and consolation  to the fighting men of Ireland, if you  cannot preach Christ an Irishman, as  Pope John exhorted, then for God's  sake, keep your silence.  Tnm Ouffey.  What The Hell  Are Some Of Us Doing?  The Editor  The Irish People  Bronx, New York  A Chara:  I am still stunned by the closing campaign efforts of the American-Irish  political candidates to garnish the Irish votes in New York. Moreover, I am  rather surprised at some of the people who endorsed the efforts of  candidates who failed to utter one word of behalf of our people in places  where it was needed most i.e. debates, T.V. ads, and the regular American  news media.  Our internees battered in Long Kesh and Crumlin Jail, and living in  caveman type conditions. The six counties of 'Occupied Ireland' in a state  of riot with people being shot down in the streets, and not one word  voiced in America's Fourth Estate by our august American-Irish politicians.  Were it not for the fact that I am faced with the reality of living in New  York, I would swear that I was taken back in time, and was, in fact,  reading Dublin newspapers rather than the American-Irish media. I felt sure  that such political bladder in respect to Irish freedom could only come  from the likes of Sean Lemass, Bob Brisco, Jack Lynch, Eamon DeValera,  and a few more such beauties- Remember 1916     Ireland Unfree Shall  Never Be At Peace - Six Divisions, Six Hours, Six  Counties - Remember James Connolly . The rhetoric was a little  different, and the political names were changed, but it was the same  political con job;  Let's use the six counties, it's good for a vote. It's what  the dumb Irish like to hear, but don't say it too loud .  Of all the unmitigated gall, and sacrilegious rhetoric I have ever perused,  this use of our oppressed people to con Irish voters is beyond contempt.  For Irishmen and Irish women who profess solidarity with our oppressed  people to lend their names to politicians who were willing to support the  State of Israel and Soviet Jews publicly, but utter no word in the American  news media about our bleeding and battered internees is a disgrace to the  Irish community.  With so many Irish voters involved, this was an opportune moment to  force the Irish question into the public arena, and I have to wonder if with  the chips down Ireland did not play a secondary role to political patronage  and opportunism.  To say I am appalled would be the understatement of all time; rather  should I get down on my knees, and ask God what Ireland did wrong to  deserve such shabby treatment from her own people, and those who claim  to have her best interest at heart.  Have we been fooled again by promises of help after the fact, but not  before? Are we yet so foolish that we will still settle for crumbs when we  could have demanded the whole loaf? Have some of our people used their  position in the Irish community to endorse candidates whose only  credibility comes from rhetoric in places where full exposure to the  American public is never achieved?  I hope you people are content with your effort, but I would remind you  that our internees are still living like dogs, and our people are suffering  more brutality than ever. Some of you have attained position in the Irish  community because of the present conflict, and only you can answer the  question as to whether you have abdicated the principals which should not,  and dare not, be placed second to personal gain, or to avoid political  embarrassment to public figures.  Man does not live on bread alone, and our people in 'Occupied Ireland'  can not be expected to continue the struggle unless our support Is both  verbal as well as materialistic.  We have missed the boat this trip, but let us hope we can learn from it,  and press home our voting power in 1975.  I suggest that those who have not read 'The McGarrity Papers  do so  now, and those of us who have could well do with a refresher course on  Irish power, and how best to use it.  We talk of the sellout of 1921, and Jack Lynch standing idly by. Just  what the hell are some of us doing?  Noel Malone,  Vice President  American Irish Repub. Army  P.S. If anyone reminds me of Congressional Resolutions; I'll remind them  that we are still waiting for positive results, and then I'll ask them:  Are  the Soviet Jews still waiting for action, and how many Americans read  Congressional Records?   lt;js the British treat Francis Stagg,  what an outcry from the Labour  Party we could expect on the  question of human rights.  Is it not time the British Labour  Military  Rule  The British Foreign Secretary, Mr.  A. Callaghan is quoted as stating  We  should not remain silent on issues of  human rights and political freedom.  We will speak and act wherever, and  whenever, we think it to be right.   It is not difficult to credit that Mr.  Callaghan personally would hesitate  to remain silent when such issues are  raised. We recall his warm humanity  and the deftness which marked his  visits to Belfast and Derry pre-1970.  But how are we to reconcile his  statement with the present policy of  the British Labour Party in  Government? This government  reputedly the champion of the  oppressed, the standard bearer of  democracy, dedicated to justice and  Freedom; this government maintains  the Tory policy of internment in the  N.E. of Ireland-even compounds it  with torture and terrorism.  The British Government inveighs  against military govemment-but  submits to it in N.E. Ireland   If a prisoner (political or criminal)  in another country (not, of course,  large or powerful) were to be treated  THE  IRISH PE PLE  Dx foolv Ite Foots   tV  Ki.f ltd Us Our ftfli* 0c  W White IrtLwd Hdds IVtt iltm *t*c Uafttt W gt;ti v,p k U Ptxt     P*  X fuu  Published Weekly By  THE IRISH PEOPLE, INC.  2705 Bainbridge Ave. Suite 32  Bronx, New York   10458  BUSINESS PHONE 212-365-2999  HOURS:   10 AM - 4 PM    8 PM - 10 PM  Serving  The Entire  United States,  Canada,  And Ireland  Owner and Publisher:  THE IRISH PEOPLE, INC.  Entered as second class matter on August 1973, at The Bronx  Main Post Office, Bronx, New York.  Annual  subscription  8.00 in  the  United States.  10.00  in Canada  and   12.00 in all other countries.  2?  CI  H  X  rn  C/ gt;  X  -o  m  O  -u  CD  3  cr  CD  0 gt;  CO  Party examined its conscience?  EAMONN OhEOCHAIDH,  44 Pairc Chluain Tore,  Baile Atha. Cliagh 11.  
        