Pace 2  The Irish People  August 9 - August 15, 2003  NEWS BRIEFS  These news items were compiled from a variety of sources.  British Army flies UVF flag  Sinn Fein councilor Pat McGinn has accused the British Army of glorifying loyalist violence after it was discovered that a UVF flag was hoisted on a stanchion supporting a military spy camera at one of the North's  largest British Army bases in Bessbrook in South Armagh.  According to McGinn,  the UVF flag appeared on the British Army  base in Besshrook. It is attached to one of the stanchions used to support  spy cameras at the base and it must be stressed that this flag is in such a  position that the only people who could have erected it were those inside  the base .  McGinn called on NIO Security Minister Jane Kennedy to  publicly  explain why this Hag has been erected and by who and why it has not been  removed.   Wc have known for many years that the British state forces have  shared information, weapons and membership with unionist paramilitaries.  It is, however, unusual for such a public display of collusion to be put on  display.   Taylor threatens to scupper Agreement  Leading Ulster Unionist John Taylor has threatened to scupper the  entire Good Friday Agreement if the proposed Independent Monitoring  Body (1MB) will include a nominee from the Dublin government.  UUP leader David Trimble has championed the establishment of the  1MB and nationalists have seen its establishment as another sop by the  British government to rejectionist unionism. But, as with other concessions, as soon as they get their cake, unionists want to cat it as well.  With two British to the Irish government's single nominee, the British  government is set to exercise complete control over the actions of the 1MB.  Furthermore, the body must report directly to the NIO Secretary of State  who has ultimate power to decide to act or ignore its recommendations.  The 1MB is a discriminatory, anti-democratic mechanism, designed to  place further burdens on the nationalist electorate in exercising their right  to democratic representation. But recent unionist opposition to the 1MB has  nothing to do with this; on the contrary, unionist objection is based on  opposition to even the appearance of a nationalist dimension within the  1MB.  Writing in the London Times, Taylor said he would  probably  vote  against the sanctions body and warned that it could undermine any unionist support lor I lie GFA. He went on to say that the proposal that the Dublin  government should nominate a representative to the new body would not  win the support of ordinary unionists. Jeffcry Donaldson has also claimed  that the participation of an Irish government nominee in any monitoring  idle of the StOrmonl Assembly represents a fundamental breach of unionist  principles.  Adams calls for election date on US visit  Sinn Fein President Gerry Adams MP arrived in New York on Tuesday  night, where he continued to press the message that the British government   has to set a date certain for the elections .  The Sinn Fein President told a meeting  not only is this a matter of  political principle but I believe Mr. Blair can be persuaded to go ahead with  the elections if US opinion joins the growing lobby in Ireland demanding  that this should happen .  Adams left Boston after briefing a Massachusetts Congressional delegation on the current state of the political process. This two-hour meeting  with the delegation led by Congressman Richard Ncal and which included  Congressman Jim McGovcrn, Congressman Stephen Lynch and  Congressman John Tierney, also focused on the very important issue of collusion.  In Boston, Adams had addressed the Irish American Partnership  luncheon. The event, attended by over 300 people, raises funds for the Irish  American Partnership, which provides financial support to community and  educational projects in Ireland.  On Monday, after a one-hour meting with fed Kennedy in his Boston  office, the Sinn Fein president welcomed the US Senator's forthright support for the holding ol'elections in the Six Counties.  Adams was due lo meet The National Council on American Foreign  Policy's Bill Flynn in New York yesterday, lie will meet with US Special  Envoy to Ireland, Richard Haass today, Thursday, when he is expected to  put the case strongly that the US do all in its power to ensure that the  Assembly elections go ahead.  Sectarian  intimidation drives  Catholics out  BY LAURA FRIEL  For many years, Antrim was used by the statutory agencies as a dumping ground for anti-social elements excluded from housing in Belfast. A few years  ago, drug dealers, armed, ruthless and apparently  beyond the law, had held sway, intimidating families  and frequently forcing them out.  Aine Gribbon had been one of many women  who had successfully campaigned to reclaim the  estate from criminal intimidation. But now Aine, like  many other families within this community, is facing  another kind of threat. Last week, the PSNI visited  Aine to inform her that her life, and the lives of other  prominent local activists, was in imminent danger  from loyalist paramilitaries.  The PSNI officer who informed the Gribbon  family of this death threat was very clear about its  source. There was a new UDA leader in Antrim and  he intended to kill a number of local republicans to  enhance his standing within the loyalist community.  But in the back living room of her home, Aine was  not preoccupied with the threat against her life but  the plight of other members of her community.   It was around 10.30pm on Saturday night,  said  Aine,  when about 40 loyalists, mostly men and  dressed in black attacked a row of six houses .  A few hundred yards from Aine's home, at the  bottom end of a large green, six houses occupied by  Catholic families in the Stiles estate came under  attack. A couple living in one of the houses described  all the front windows, upstairs and down, coming in  around them simultaneously and with such force that  the shattered glass covered the rooms.  Aine had been one of a number of local residents  to run across the playing field to the scene of the  attack.  There was a whole crowd of loyalists and  only two PSNI officers,  said Aine.  Later, a CID officer told a resident that the PSNI  weren't sure that the attack had been sectarian  because some of the families whose homes had been  targeted were mixed marriages. The loyalist mob  returned on Sunday night and launched an attack on  a number of other Catholic homes in the area.  During last year's Orange marching season, over  60 Catholic families were forced to flee following  loyalist intimidation in Antrim. Having successfully  driven many Catholics away from the adjacent  Steeples and Park Hall estates, loyalists now appear  intent on extending their control in the Stiles area.  Local Sinn Fein Councilor Martin McManus  says the media portrayal of what is currently occurring in Antrim as 'tit-for-tat' inter-community strife is  not only misleading but also adds to the plight of  those targeted for intimidation.   We are witnessing loyalist paramilitaries intent  on creating a divided community by driving  Catholics out of a mixed area,  he said.  To describe  that process as 'tit-for-tat' is a dangerous nonsense  and buys into the loyalist agenda of making it impossible for Protestants and Catholics to live peacefully  within integrated housing.   It is a matter of personal pride, that I can tell  you that during a period of intense provocation, in  which over 300 Catholics have been rendered homeless by loyalist intimidation, not one single Protestant  has been intimidated out of this estate. Sectarian  retaliation is not an option here; loyalism may thrive  on division but republicans are intent upon building  a society of equals.   O Coileain  Irish Imports  IRISH AND CELTIC GIFTS  1-800-633-1990  
        