Page 14  The Irish People  August 9 - August 15, 2003  Sinn Fein opposes GM in Ireland  Calls for nationwide consultation  Free v?s v  BY ROISIN DE ROSA  Sinn Fein delivered a serious challenge to  both governments on Tuesday, in calling on both  to have regard to Irish interests and keep the  island free of Genetically Modified (GM) seeds  and foods.  Agriculture spokesperson Gerry McHugh  delivered a sharp call on behalf of all Irish fanners to Agriculture Minister Joe Walsh to institute  a nationwide consultation on the important issue  of GM that, he said, could irreversibly damage  Irish farming interests. He was speaking at a  press conference in Dublin chaired by the city's  EU election candidate Marylou McDonald.   Sinn Fein believes that the island of  Ireland, which exports four fifths of our agricultural produce, cannot afford to allow GM seeds  and foodstuffs into the country,  he said.   Organic fanning, which is a niche market upon  which the very survival of Irish agriculture may  well depend, will be wiped out and our image of  'green clean' food obliterated. We urgently need  nation wide all Ireland consultation.    This island cannot allow one part to opt  for GM crops or food while the other part stays  free. Cross contamination of hybrid plants and  crops will contaminate the whole island,  Gerry  McHugh pointed out.   Recently, Martin Ferris and myself went  to Brussels and talked to the EU people about  this and other agricultural issues, where  Ministers in London and Dublin are not protecting all Irish interests. In the next few weeks, we  will be meeting again with the ministers here,  with North/South bodies, to impress on them the  need to institute real consultation with fanners'  organizations, with NGOs and with consumers  across our island who maybe do not want to cat  foods of which the effects on health arc most  uncertain.    People have a right to be consulted about  what they eat , said Marylou. She pointed out  that the EU Council of Ministers had only last  week formally approved guidelines prohibiting  national and regional governments from banning the use of GM organisms.   What position arc our EU MEPs taking on  this issue? What is the Dublin government  doing? Nothing. Minister Walsh told Martin  Ferris in the Dail on 17 June that he has no plans  to institute a fonnal public consultation process.   Yet,  she went on,  there is still scope for  member states to prevent the cultivation of GM  crops in some zones. Are we going to allow  Minister Walsh to let this issue go by default?    We should not allow Ireland to be pushed  down the road to GM by the EU, still less by  ministers' slevccn attitudes to multi-million dollar corporations that seek to corner the world's  food production.   Marylou scotched claims that GM foods  will boost production and alleviate food shortages in the world.  Quite the contrary is the  case,  she said.  Yields on GM crops are lower  by some 15  than with normal varieties, and far  more costly to the farmer to grow. Per capita  food production has outstripped population  growth over the last 30 years by 15 . People  starve today because they cannot afford food,  not because it is in scarce supply.   Monsanto's terminator seeds, where farmers arc obliged to purchase a chemical spray to  turn on the reproductive capacity of the seed, or  Round-up Ready Soya, which makes the plants  resistant to all other weed killers and so obligates farmers to buy Monsanto's 'Round-up  weed killer,' these GM seeds ensure that farmers  have to buy Monsanto's chemical products. Do  our farmers want to be in hock to Monsanto's  empire? At least they could be asked first.    We must expose the myth that GM  increases agricultural productivity. The real  motivation behind the drive to force GM on the  globe is to tighten the control of multinationals  on the entire food chain from seed to sale.   Several NGOs, including Oxfam, the  Countryside Alliance and Trocaire, all represented at the conference, raised wider issues of Fair  Trade and the need to push the EU and member  states to support fair trade.  Marylou herself pointed out that GM food  issues was just one part of the wider agenda of  the 'richer' countries to allow corporations to  patent life forms, under the Trade Related  Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS), and she  appealed to NGOs to join together in a call for  immediate public consultation.   I do not believe,  Gerry said,  that the  people of this island support cither GM foods or  would like to realize they arc directly responsible for the impoverishment and suffering in  developing world countries because our ministers and the EU will not support fair trade  amongst nations.   Wc need these issues to be discussed  across all of Ireland, before the Cancun World  Trade Organisation negotiations take place in  September, and ministers need to listen to what  is said.   Maskey honored  in Ardara  The Sinn Fein Cumann in Ardara,  County Donegal, last weekend held a  successful function to honour Alex  Maskey the first republican Lord Mayor  of Belfast.  Maskey, who was first elected to  Belfast City Council over 20 years ago,  spoke of his involvement in republican  struggle over the years before presenting  local Sinn Fein representative Pearse  Doherty and chairperson of the local  cumann. Padraig Mac Suibhne, with a  commemorative plaque, one of only 25 in  existence issued to mark his tenure in  office.  Pictured (L to R) Pearse Doherty,  Alex Maskey, Padraig Mac Suibhne  1803 Rising remembered in  Clonakilty  Cumann Seanchais Chloich na  Coillte (Clonakilty Historical Society)  organized a commemoration last  Wednesday evening to remember the  bicentenary Robert Emmet's ill-fated rising in Thomas Street, Dublin, on 23 July  1803. While there was no action locally  at that time, four men with known associations with the United Irishmen movement were arrested that morning in  Clonakilty.  At 8pm, approximately 30 people,  including a contingent of Croppies from  Shannonvale, gathered at the Convent of  Mercy, where stood  Scartagh Cottage   where the arrests took place. Traolach i  Donnabhain of An Cumann Seanchais  extended a Cead Mile I-'ailtc to everyone  and St. Eileen McSwecncy of the convent  read out a short history of the cottage and  the grotto, which now stands on the site.  Tim Crowley outlined that Dr William  Callanan, who resided at the cottage, was  arrested with an Ulster Presbyterian and  known agitator for Catholic  Emancipation, William Todd Jones, Fr  David Walsh, the then Parish Priest of  Barryroe (and later of Clonakilty), and a  John Gould from Ardfield.  Sinn Fein Councilor Cionnaith i  Soilleabhain is pictured reading sections  from Emmet's 1803 Proclamation of the  Republic. The proclamation called for an  independent Ireland, religious tolerance  and distribution of the wealth of the  nation. It also advocated civil and human  rights for all. including prisoners of war  and the abolition of the tithes.  Colombia Three support  Mary Madden, proprietor of the  Bridge Bar Bundoran, is pictured  handing over a check to Madeleine  Connolly, mother of Niall Connolly, at a  recent function held for the Bring Them  Home Campaign. Also pictured are Sinn  Fein Councilor Michael McMahon and his  daughter in law, Mary Connolly. The committee expressed their thanks to everybody  who donated to the campaign and to all  who turned up on the night.  
        