-J  O  w  CO  s  f    lt;  w  Oh  Gaelic Games: National Football League quarter-finals  Kerry put on pressure  to relieve boredom  KERRY    1-11  DERRY    0-5  IF SOME smart sponsor  were to put up an award for  the worst match of the year'  the second quarter-final of the  National Football League between Kerry and Derry at  Croke Park yesterday would  (be a strong (or is it weak?)  contender to carry off the  prize. It was a doleful affair,  unrelieved by any feature  approaching entertainment for  5,325 spectators until the last  five minutes, when Kerry  skipped through the Derry  defence to score six sparkling  points from play.  Before that shocking deviation  from the norm, which must have  been due to a collective brainstorm, there was solid ground for  suspicion that the All-Ireland  champions had been hijacked on  the way to Dublin and replaced in  the famous green and gold by a  team of novices.  One can only assume that  Kerry, with a (ar bigger prize in  the offing, are not prepared to  break their necks or burst their  guts to win the National League.  It the last five minutes are  excepted, it was almost by default  that they won yesterday     and  now they arc through to a semifinal meeting with Armagh, at  Croke i'.uk on April 11th.  DERRY'S LAPSE  For more than thrccquartcrs of  the hour, the game was there for  the taking by Derry but, while the  Ulster side was pretty strong in  defence and not lacking in industry around midfield, they were  short of ideas and power in attack,  where only Mickey Lynch and,  for a period of about 21) minutes,  s ubstitutc Lug e n c Y o u n g  threatened to take advantage of a  weakness in the Kerry hall-back  line.  There was no weakness at right-  half, however, for Paud O'Shea  was one of the few Kerry players  to perforin adequately and it was  he  who  opened  up  the  road   to  victory with two fine points from  dead-ball kicks, a 50 and a  55-yards free, in the 10th and 11th  minutes of the second half. Those  scores regained a lead which  Kerry had lost six minutes before  the interval.  If this game is to be remembered in days to come it will be  for one happening     the return of  Pat Spillane to the Kerry team for  the first time since his token  appearance at the close of the All-  Ireland final last September.  Spillane replaced Ambrose  O'Donovan eight minutes from the  end and sprinted around as if his  left knee had never been damaged.  His possession of the ball was  minimal, however, but he left an  imprint on the event with a typical  curling point from the right corner  just on the call of time.  Kerry lined out with 10 of their  All-Ireland team, the missing men  being John O'Keeffe, who was  released to be with the St  Brendan's (Killarney) team in the  Munster colleges' final; Paud  Lynch, Denis Moran, Mike  Sheehy and John Egan.  Vincent O'Connor, though not  overworked, deputised most capably for O'Keeffe in the full-back  position and John L. McElligott  again played well enough at right-  half forward to keep the selectors  wondering what they will do about  him when championship time  comes around.  Jim Denihan was called up to  play at right-full but was clearly  hampered by his hamstring injury  ami the midfielder. Jack O'Shea,  though he played with more heart  than most of his colleagues, was  also slowed down bv the let: injurv  he sustained in the tinal ot the  Railway Cup.  CLOSE MARKING  Ger Power, who had been  having a lean time of late,  flourished as a forager and carrier  when he moved from the right  corner to left half forward in the  second half and Eoin Liston won  a great deal of possession, both at  full-forward and centre forward,  but had several scoring attempts  blocked down by the alert Derry  backs.  Close marking was a feature of  Derry's defensive play and was  largely responsible for Kerry's  failure to score from play between  the third and 48th minutes.  John Sommers had a good game  in goal, his saves including two  McElligott shots from point-blank  range. The Trainor brothers and  Terry Moore formed a vigilant full  back line, while Gerry O'Loughlin  and Frankie Johnston, who  swapped wings in the half back  line, played very effectively until  the final quarter of an hour.  Mick Berryman, who replaced  James McGuckian at centre half  after the interval, also played  quite well for a while, but,  towards the end, the whole Derry  defence caved in as Kerry, at last,  released their latent scoring  power.  Liston scored Kerry's goal in  the third minute when he moved  through two defenders like a skier  racing through two of those posts  on a slalom run. Tommy Doyle,  from a free, put them 1-1 to 0-1 in  front in the 11th minute and then  Derry took up the running to level  the scores, 1-1 to 0-4, at half time.  Lynch, Damien Barton, Colm  McKee, with a kick as high as a  tower, and Young were Derry's  first-half scorers.  Kerry's passes landed in Derry  hands so often in the first half that  one wondered if most of the side  were afflicted by colour blindness.  Derry scored only once in the  second half, a point in the 43rd  minute from Eugene Donnelly.  Paud O'Shea, as stated, set Kerry  off with his big kicks from long  range and Power scored from play  in the 48th minute.  That was followed by a Tommy  Doyle point from a free, after  which McElligott (2), Liston,  Power, Tommy Doyle and Pat  Spillane knocked half a dozen  over tne oar io complete a iorget-  table game.  Tailpiece: The small crowd got poor value  for their money from the double bill (the  admission pnee to the Hogan Stand was   4)  and they could not be bbmed for complaining  that the public address system was not used  to inform them of the changes in Kerry's line-  out and the identity of substitutes during the  course of the game.  KERRY: C Nelligan: J Dcnlhan, V  O'Connor, M Spillane; P O'Shea (0-2, ont 50,  one free), T Kennellv, G Lvnch; J O'Shea, S  Walsh; J L McElligott (0-'2), T SpUlane, T  Doyle (0-3, one free); G Power (0-2), E Liston  (1-1), J Doyle. Subs     A O'Donovan for J  Doyle (hair time); P Spillane (0-1) for  O'Donovan (52 mins).  DERRY: J Somcrs; T Moore, F Trainor.  B Trainor; F Johnston. J McGuckian, G  O'Loughlm. J trwin, D Barton (0-1); E  Donnelly (0-1), M Lynch (0-1) F McCloskey;  C McKee (0-1). P Dougan. B O'Neill Subs      E Young (0-1) for Dougan (20 mins); M  Berryman for McGuckian (half time); B Kelly  for MtX'loskev (53 nuns).  Referee: J Gunning (Offaly).  Offaly's Matt Connor gets  in his kick at goal despite  the close marking of Mark  Turley of Down in yesterday's National Football  League Quarter-final at  Croke Park.     Photograph: Tom Lawlor  GAA IN BRIEF  NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE  Quarter-finals     Offaly   1-9,   Down  0-12;  Kerry 1-11. Derry 0-5.  NATIONAL HURLING LEAGUE  Division Two     Wicklow  1-H.  Mayo 0-4;  Kildare   4-12.   Armagh   2-12;   Meath   4-12,  Roscommon 2-2.  Down's top  ks  HI  b  DOWN      0-12;  OFFALY     1-9  GREG BI ANEY. Down's  stylish centre forward contributed half of his team's score  in their drawn match with  Offaly in the National Football  League quarter-final at Croke  Park yesterday, but it will be  his extraordinary failures  which will be remembered. He  drove the ball wildly wide of  an open goal in the first half  and then was badly short with  a free kick which would have  decided the match just before  the end  But, if Down were prodigal with  their chances, Offaly were even  worse and their total of Id wides  in the course of the match is a sad  reflection on their players and  their failure to master the most  basic skill of the game.  Yet, it was the  quick eye and  sharp reflexes of Matt Connor  which gave them the goal which  kepi them in control of Tor most ol  the match. Connor was in like a  whippet    after   John    Guinan's  target at last moment  angled pass in the sixth minute to  deflect the ball past Pat Donnan  for the only goal of the game. Had  his colleagues and rivals been as  nimble and as inspired there  would have been a Hood of  scoring which would have put the  scoreboard into a spin.  Not that scoring would have  made much difference to the dull  atmosphere and rather halfhearted efforts of the players or  given the crowd of just over 5,000  any better value for their money.  The standard of football was never  much above the mediocre and it  was only the enthusiasm of the'  supporters -.if the Ulster teams  which gave  an air of competitiveness to the two games.  Down will be pleased enough  with the dtaw for they were  trailing throughout the match until  the 25th minute when Blaney  brought them level for the first  time. By that stage the centre  orward had suddenly discovered  his accurac) and that point was  his third in as man) minutes.  Had he been in similar, form in  the 12th minute, there might have  been a much different outcome.  With the Offaly defence in some  thing of a muddle and their goalkeeper Denis Wynne advancing  from his line in desperation,  Blaney, from no more than six  yards and with a yawning net in  front of him, drove the ball wide.  His team-mate, Damien Morgan,  followed up with two misses  which were almost as bad and  Blaney himself also shot wide  from a good chance as Down let  Offaly off the hook.  The Leinster champions had  started impressively and a good  shot from John Guinan was well  saved by Pat Donnan as they  pressed forward and. although  they also missed simple chances  of scores, they found themselves  ahead by l-l  in the sixth minute  both scores coming from Matt  Connor.  Paddy O'Rourke seorcd a  beautiful point for Down in the  seventh minute and Brendan  McGovern added another before  Blaney and Morgan missed those  simple chances. It was now  Offaly's turn but when Guinan and  Pat Fitzgerald tried tor goals  Donnan brought off a marvellous  double save to deny them.  Down had another chance soon  after this when John McCartan-  and Damien Morgan , swept  through the Offaly defence after  Ambrose Rodgers had again won  possession at midfield. Brendan  McGovern appeared at the end of  the move but blazed the ball over  the bar when a goal seemed a  more likely outcome.  When   Offaly  came   back  with  Points from Gerry Carroll and Pat  itzgerald to give Offaly a goal  lead Down seemed to be slipping  away but Blaney at last found the  range and Paddy O'Rourke dashed  through for another good point to  leave them only a point behind at  half time.  Offaly surged forward again at  the start of the second half and  Padraig Dunne and Brendan  Lowry widened the gap to three-  points again. Down  brought on  Liam Austin at this stage with  Ambrose Rodgers moving Into the  half forward line but Offalv continued to exert full control and  Matt Connor took a point from a  sideline free with a beautiful kick  to Give them a four-point lead.  Down refused to give up, however, and after lim McCartan and  Brendan Lowry had  exchanged  points, frees by Blaney and  Brendan McGovern revived  Down's morale. Gerry Carroll  pointed for Offaly but there followed Blaney's hat-trick of points  to bring the scores level. He  levelled again three minutes later  after Dunne had punched a Lowry  lob over the bar for Offaly.  SHORT TIME  There followed Blaney's  chance to win the game but he  struck his free from 40 yards with  the wind behind hkn short into the  goalmouth. It was cleared before  the referee. Kevin Campbell from  Meath. signalled a draw with half  a minute remaining on the stop  watch.  When the replay takes place on  April 4th, also in Croke Park,  much will depend on whether or  not the sides are capable of  making the most of their chances.  Yesterday, Down played some  neat incisive football from defence  through midfield but when the 40  yard mark was reached they  seemed to lose themselves, Their  midfielders Ambrose Rodgers and  Paddy O'Rourke can claim a lot of  the credit for the draw and Mark  Thurlcy, Mickey Sands and Ned  King in defence were in good  form.  The attack, however, needs a  lot of shooting practice and if this  aspect of their game can be put  right they might well reach the  semi-finals.  Offaly will also have learned a  lesson from the operation. Their  defence, too, was sound with  Michael Lowry, Liam Connor.  Charlie Conroy, and Stephen  Darby always willing to play  constructively but. unfortunately,  were it not for the opportunism of  Matt Connor in taking the goal  when the chance came, they might  not have lived to fight another  day.  
        