CM  HI  -J  a.  O  The Hunger Strikers  At Foly Square  I   2  x  CO  .2  E   gt;  o  2  By: BERNARD MACKLE  Last August, I bumped into Jimmy  Lyons, an old friend, on O'Connell  Street, Dublin, while on a visit to  Ireland.  Jimmy, a disabled vet, served in my  old army division (27th Infantry Reg.  25th Div.). He owns a tavern in  Hillside, N.J., called  Lyons' Den .  Jim a native of County Roscommon,  Ireland, has a lovely American wife  Eileen and five children.  We arranged to take the train from  Dublin to Belfast and see for  ourselves whether the British army  was really keeping peace between  Irish religious fanatics, as reported in  most Jersey papers.  We stayed only two days in Belfast,  which seemed afterwards like two  weeks, and were left with the  unforgettable memory of the Irish  people in Belfast who silently resist  the constant ominous threat of the  occupying British army. On the  evening of the day we arrived, a 13  year old child went to the corner  store to get an ice cream cone and  was shot dead by one of the  pasty-faced soldiers in flack jackets of  the Royal Green Jacket Regiment  who patrol the streets of Belfast in  daylight on foot or in heavy armored  cars with their finger always in the  trigger guard of an automatic  shoulder weapon.  We stayed in separate houses that  night.  Lyons woke up in a bedroom  flooded with blinding white light and  deafened by the sound of a helicopter  hovering directly over the house. The  search lights are used by the  helicopter pilots to illuminate the  backyards ot Nationalist areas looking  for a target for the door gunner. It is  at night that the I.R.A. lads  on the  run  are trying to get home for a visit  with their mother and family. Most of  the fathers are interned in the  infamous Long Kesh Concentration  Camp.  Not a word of bigotry or religious  hatred did we hear while there, but  many accounts of the vicious  ruthlessness of the hated  Brits  and  the courageous exploits of the I.R.A.  lads were related in the tiny kitchens  and parlors.  We left convinced that peace will  never come to the six counties of  occupied Ireland until the United  Nations intervene and the British  Army with tho S.A.S. assassination  experts are withdrawn from Ireland.  The S.A.S. (Secret Air Services)  resemblos the C.I.A. in that it uses the  same tactics of clandestine murder,  infiltration, and the distorted news  release to discredit the Irish men who  are fighting to free their native land  from the ancient enemy.  I left Jimmy in Dublin to go to the  musical festival in Listowel, County  Kerry, where the traditional Irish  Musicians Club of N.Y., the group I  travelled with on the charter air trip,  would be competing in the annual  events. Jimmy went on to the North  to visit Derry City, scene of  Bloody  Sunday  when British soldiers in  dress uniform pulled into a small  square, dismounted from their  armored cars and carefully aiming at  short range, fired into the backs of a  group of Irish people listening to a  civil rights speaker on a stand. 13  persons were left dead. The shocking  crime was given world wide publicity  since a news photographer was in the  square. Nonetheless, no charges were  ever brought by the English  Government against their uniformed  murderers.  When Jimmy arrived back in  Hillside, he was selected as President  of the NJ. Chapter of the Irish Legal  Aid Fund. This fund was formed to  provide  25 per week to support each  of the children of the four  Irish-Americans who had been  arrested in New York by the F.B.I.,  tried in Baltimore, convicted and  sentenced to six years and then sent  separately to maximum security  prisons to be kept in solitary  confinement for admitting guilt to  Sinn Fein President  Addresses All-Group Conference  South's Government  ise To Attend  the Federal Crime of attempting to  arrange, in New York, the purchase of  arms for the I.R.A.  In the Baltimore Federal Court,  Judge Northrup, before sentencing, to  his credit, said, the defendants were  not true criminals and acted out of  love for their native land.  One of the prisoners, Jim Conlon, a  Queens, N.Y. businessman with a  large family, has, in recent weeks,  been subjected to intense  interrogation by Federal Agents in his  cell in the Ft. Leavenworth Bastile,  although his lawyer had not been  notified. When Conlon refused to  become an  informer , he was  threatened with deportation to  Belfast, his native city.  One of two things can happen to  Jim when the plane touches down in  Belfast. Either he will be placed under  surveillance and murdered sometime  later by S.A.S. agents or else arrested  and taken by helicopter to Long Kesh  where he will undergo torture and  intensive interrogation while his wife  and 5 children pray for his safety  back home in New York.  It should be noted that a former  I.R.A. Chief, Sean McBride, winner of  the Nobel Peace Prize earlier in the  month, headed Amnesty  International, the organization that  brought documented charges of  torture of prisoners in the Long Kesh  Concentration Camp, against the  British Government at the hearings  held before the European  Commission of Human Rights in  Strasbourg. The hearings, which  revealed the shocking atrocities by  British guards, have been moved to  Stavenger, Norway.  Since the recent fire in Long Kesh  that destroyed most of the miserable,  overcrowded huts, the Irish internees,  held without charge or trial, are now  forced to sleep out on the wet ground  and have the indignities of their  personal items being destroyed by the  British guards.  Bishop Drury of Corpus Christi,  Texas, and New York Congressman  Wolf, who actually have been inside  Long Kesh, say the only items missing  there are the gas ovens.  Monday, October 28th at 9:00  P.M., James Lyons and Michael  Costeloe, a County Galway man and  father of 4 children, began a hunger  strike on the steps of the Federal  Building in Foley Square, New York  City, hoping somehow to stop the  threat of deportation of Conlon to  Long Kesh, to effect a transfer to a  prison closer to his home so his  children could visit, and to stop any  further questioning without the  presence of his attorney.  On Wednesday, the third day of  the hunger strike, T.V. camera crews  interviewed Lyons and Costeloe on  the steps while a New Jersey  Delegation of Irish-Americans from  Bergen, Ocean, Monmouth, and Essex  Counties sang Irish songs.  On Saturday, November 2nd, the  sixth day without food, Lyons and  Costeloe were again applauded by  their friends. Mrs. Conlon arrived,  showing the visible effects of the fear  of her husband's deportation threat  and thanked both men for their  sacrifice on her husband's behalf.  Jim Conlon's six-year old boy then  spoke into the Mike and faltering,  thanked both the hunger strikers for  trying to bring his daddy back home.  Tears were streaming unashamedly  down many faces at this time.  Speakers then asked everyone to  write to their Representatives to  intervene so the hunger strike could  end since Lyons and Costeloe were  resolved to continue until a  substantial committment was given.  Many telegrams were read,  including those from Congressman  Carey, from Ramsey Clark who  promised to join their legal staff, and  Fr. Sean McManus, the Baltimore  priest who has done so much in the  crusade to bring justice to Northern  Ireland.  The following telegram was  received*  MY  WASHINGTON   OFFICE  IS  Refui  Michael Costello and Jim Lyons  CONTACTING DIRECTOR  BUREAU OF PRISONS TO SEEK  TRANSFER OF J. CONLON FROM  LEAVENWORTH TO  LEWISBURG-EVERYTHING  POSSIBLE WILL BE DONE TO  BRING CONLON CLOSER TO HIS  FAMILY.  CONGRESSMAN PETER W.  RODINO,JR.  On Saturday night, Congressman  Rodino met Mrs. Conlon in Newark  and gave her his personal assurance  that every effort would be made to  halt the threatened deportation of her  husband.  Word was brought to Jim Lyons  and Mike Costeloe on the steps at  Foley Square and they agreed to halt  the hunger strike.  All of us who know both men can  only express our admiration for their  courage and selfless sacrifice but the  gratitude of Mrs. Conlon and her little  family will always sustain them.  On Monday afternoon, November  4th, Bart Dougherty, a Detective Lt.  in the Essex County Prosecutors  Office and the National Coordinator  of the Irish Legal Aid Fund received a  telephone call from Congressman  Rodino. He informed Dougherty that  the Director of Federal Prisons had  just notified the Congressman that  James Conlon was being transferred  to Lewisburg, Md.  JEANNIE  CAMPBELL  Irish  Store  5008 Broadway,  New York, N.Y. 10034  (near 213th St.)  Tel.212-LO-7-5169  Largest selection  of 8 track tapes  Casetes   Records Galore  Only store in country selling  Paddy Carty  Traditional LP.  (A must for people that love truly  Irish Traditional Music)  Irish sweaters* China*  Glassware and sonveniers.  Irish papers on sale  every Monday night  Problems with Tape Deck, Car,  Radio    any typo Hi Fi or Stereo  Phonographic expert  Years of experience  service and sales  Phono needles examined free  A conference from which no party  or group was to be excluded ended  successfully this week despite refusal  of the Southern government and  Opposition party, Fianna Fail, to  send representatives. Almost every  speaker from the platform and the  floor condemned the absence of the  representatives during the three-day  Conference.  The conference, organised by the  Speakers' Club of the Regional  Technical College, Galway, was  described as a vehicle whereby  Irishmen of all political opinions,  North and South, could give their  answers to current crisis. But despite  the absence of the government or  Opposition of the South a  representative panel of about 50  speakers from North and South  including many Republican and  Loyalist contingents took part in the  debate. The subject for discussion was   Can Irishmen Find A Solution To  Their Own Problems . All the  sessions, especially the private ones,  involving loyalist leaders, the  Provisionals and many shades of  opinion, provided signs of a large  extent of common ground. The  delegates taking part were unanimous  in a wish to meet again soon.  THE BUILDING OF  A NEW IRELAND  The President of Provisional Sinn  Fein, Mr. Ruairi O'Bradaigh told the  conference that once the British made  an undertaking to withdraw from  Northern Ireland the I.R.A. would  stop fighting. Said Mr. O'Bradaigh:   When we come to the matter of a  solution the key to the solution lies in  a declaration by the British of their  intention, over some period of years,  to be negotiated, to quit our country  once and for all.  'That should be the first step and  the I.R.A. have said in their public  statement that once such a date is  given and a firm intention, they  would stop fighting.  and a fresh start made .  Mr. O'Bradaigh quoted the British  Kilbrandon Report where, he said, a  federal system was defined as  sovereignty divided between two  levels of government, the federal  government sovereign in some matters  and the provincial in others, each  exercising power within its own  sphere and neither subordinate.  Mr. O'Bradaigh added that the  situation in Ireland now was the  result of the failure of an imposed  British settlement in 1921.  MR. HARRY MURRAY, formerly  of the Loyalist Ulster Workers  Council, said that he believed the  people of the North must first be  united before there could be an  united Ireland.  We must live  together  he said.  We must be one  people. Before the constitutional  convention elections, there must be  dialogue established by both sides in  the North so that they could remove  their fears and suspicion of each  other .  MR. SAMMY SMITH, a member of  the Ulster Defence Association told  the conference:  It is obvious that  their position (Irish Nationalists) is  one of sheer, undiluted nationalist  bigotry. It must be emphasised that I  am referring to the citizens of the  Republic and Northern Nationalists  who, to a man subscribe to the myth  of a united Ireland. The Protestant in  Northern Ireland is not Irish, does not  regard himself as Irish and objects  most vehemently when * he is allied  with what, to him, is now a most  obnoxious breed .  MR. FRANK McMANUS, the  former U n ity M.P. for  Fermanagh/South Tyrone said that if  the Loyalists had not destroyed  Sunningdale, the Nationalists would  have done so, since it sought to  formalise the artificial division of the  community. The forthcoming  Convention should, as a first step,  negotiate   English  withdrawal from   The next stage, I would see, is the   tne  North, and lf tnis Convention  building of a new federal Ireland with  a division of power-both states,  North and South, being dismantled  created a forum for  listening    point   worthwhile .  a representative  it    would    be  Loyalists Will Be Worst  Hit By Currency  The Ulster Workers' Council plan  to boycott Irish cash was seen in  Dublin on Monday as a very damp  squib likely to cause more  inconvenience to Loyalists than to  any other section of the Northern  Ireland community.  The UWC scheme is to put up  posters in shops telling customers that  Irish money will not be accepted.  Council spokesman, Mr. Jan Smyth,  said that in a'ddition, factory workers  would be asked not to accept the  Republic's currency in pay packets.  But an Irish banks'spokesman said  the campaign would have no major  practical effect. And the Dublin  Government is understood to feel  that anything which forms an  unnecessary barrier between North  and South, or between communities  in the North is something to be  deplored.  GOODS SANCTIONS  '   LATER  Mr. Smyth said that  sanctions on  Eire goods  would be considered  later. The UWC had decided that in  view of their opposition to a united  Ireland  It was ridiculous that Eire  currency should be used alongside  British currency. Their currency is  not legal tender in the United  Kingdom and, as we are part of the  United Kingdom, it should not be  considered here.   The boycott of currency,  he  added,  will be a means of reminding  the South that we do not want  anything to do with them. Immediate  moves must be made to ensure that  Southern currency is made worthless  in the Six Counties.   Supporting the campaign, the  UWC's Co. Antrim Executive said:   This is no futile protest. It will  permit Ulster folk who are sick and  tired of constant foreign political  intrusion into our tragic situation to  strike a peaceful but humiliating blow  to those same subversive Eire  Government forces.   BANK SPOKESMAN'S  VIEW  The total value of Irish currency in  circulation at present is   22572  million, including   210 million in  notes. Only a small amount of this,  possibly as little as two per cent, is in  circulation in Northern Ireland.  The Irish banks' spokesman said  the boycott would not result in any  exchange rate discrepancy. The banks  all of which are 32-county  organisations, would simply continue  to transfer their respective currencies.   Any bank will accept Irish money  and change it for British money  without any difficulty,  said the  spokesman.  That's just part of their  business. So even if there was a  massive boycott, traders and other  individuals would have no trouble  about getting change.   A Dublin export consultant said a  products boycott would have a  minimal effect on the Republic's  exports to Northern Ireland-now  running at more than   80 million a  year. A retaliatory boycott would  damage the North's economy.  In a  trade war both sides get hurt,  he  said.  The consultant also pointed out  that most business transactions were  done by cheque, bill of exchange or  transfer or funds, and not by cash.  
        