OCTOBER 31, 1992  THE IRISH PEOPLE  PAGE 10  British Army Sergeant  A sergeant in the Royal Irish  Regiment and formerly an RUC  member was shot dead by the IRA  on Tuesday, October 20th. The man  was killed in Rasharkin in County  Antrim.  The IRA, claiming responsibility for the  shooting, said that they had liad the sergeant  under close observation for a considerable  period of time. The 40-year-old RIR  sergeant was later named as Robert Irvine,  a member of the RUC before joining die  British army.  FURTHER ATTACKS  IN LONDON  Continuing its intensive bombing  campaign in the British capital, the IRA  caused widespread disruption with three  explosives in 1 ,ondon in the past week. The  first two explosions went off in the early  hours of Monday morning, October 19th,  causing extensive damage to a hotel and  city-center bar.  Tlie first device exploded at 12.40 a.m.  outside the Novotel I lotcl in 1 lammersmith,  west London. In this attack, the  Metropolitan police again refused to  evacuate the building despite a clear and  explicit warning from the IRA's active  service unit. Over 6(X) persons were in tlie  hotel when the device exploded and were  described by witnesses afterwards as being  Shocked and disgusted at noi being told by  the London police of the IRA wanting.  In the second attack, a fair in London's  West End was damaged when another  device exploited around 1.30 a.m. The  Comedy bar, and surrounding buildings  near I eu ester Square, were damaged in the  blast. As in the Hammersmith blast, a  warning was relayed to a local radio station.  A worker in anearby cafe, Joseph Latouche,  described the explosion.  There was a big  bang. I thought it must be a big bomb,  because it shook the building, but I heard  later there was only one to one-and-a-half  pounds of explosives.   The IRA statement, issued in Dublin  from die Irish Republican Publicity Bureau  and signed  P, O'NciH , claimed  responsibility for the attacks, saying:   Active service units of die IRA placed  the two devices which exploded in London  in die early hours of yesterday morning.  k'Again with yesterday's blasts, British  police failed to clear target areas in spite of  having received specific warnings  autlienticatedwidirecognizedcodewords.   The IRA said that British police policy  had resulted in recent injuries and in the  tragic deadi of David Heffer. IRA warnings  were not being passed on by police in order  to 'minimize die disruption caused by  bomb and hoax bomb attacks. This policy  should end before there are further tragic  consequences.   On Wednesday, October 21st, at 4.40  p.m., a bomb exploded near Silver Street  British Rail station in North London, The  explosion on the railroad line over the bridge  on die network Southeast line caused severe  disruption to the Liverpool Street lines.  The IRA said diat Constabulary had  earlier failed to act on a warning:    ln spile of repeated phone calls to a  number of London radio static mis. British  police have failed to act on authenticated  warnings that our Volunteers have placed a  bomb on tlie railway line at Four Bridges  on the North Circuhtr Road, London. This  latest incident again underlines the reckless  and cynical policy being pursued by British  officials.   These explosions brought to eleven the  number of bombs detonated in the British  capital in less than two weeks.  CROWN FORCES  PATROLS UNDER FIRE  The IRA's Belfast Brigade have claimed  responsibilty for several operations in the  city which have kept British forces pinned  down and on the move. As Belfast city  center continued to resemble a ancient  fortified city, with thousands of British  crown forces criss-crossing each other*s  patrols, transport and commercial targets  were hit hard.  Saturday, October 10th, saw IRA  Volunteers engaging a British mobile patrol  in the Twinbrook area on the outskirts of  West Belfast. Three British soldiers were  injured when an impact grenade exploded  on top of their armored personnel carrier.  The IRA attack was conducted with  devastating accuracy. This method of attack  has resulted in these British carriers being  fitted with more and more armor to protect  the crews.  The IRA statement continued by giving  details of a gun attack at the crown forces  barracks in the Oldpark Road in north  Belfast on Thursday evening, October 16th.  Before the attack, IRA Volunteers  assembled at a number of positions around  die barracks to wait for a British foot and  mobile patrol which earlier had been  moving through die Ardoyne area. At  approximately 10 p.m., as the enemy forces  approached tlie barracks, two Volunteers  opened up with automatic rifles. At this  point the British mobile patrol raced into the  barracks closely followed by the badly  shaken foot- patrol. There was no return fire,  and all Volunteers withdrew from the  barracks perimeter, evading British  reinforcements moving cautiously into tlie  area  A large hotel at the corner of Botanic  Avenue   and   University   Street   beside  Belfast's 'golden mile' was the target of a  250-lb IRA car bomb in the early hours of  Monday morning, October 19th. IRA  Volunteers in the south of the city loaded  the explosives into the commandeered car  and drove it to the busy road junction, where  it was parked outside the main entrance of  Dukes Hotel. Because it was known that  there were guests staying in the hotel, a 50-  minute warning was given to allow those  inside to be evacuated safely. British army  technical officers later disarmed the  detonating mechanism with two small  explosions.  Rail traffic was seriously disrupted  throughout Monday night and most of  Tuesday, October 2oth, following another  bomb attack in south Belfast. Volunteers  exploded a device on the tine between  Belfast Central and Botanic Stations and  then withdrew from the track. Keeping the  line under observation, the Volunteers  waited for a considerable time for the crown  forces to arrive. When they failed to appear,  the Volunteers dispersed and it was only  with daylight and dozens of foot and mobile  patrols that the British forces moved into  the area.  DUNGANNON  INCENDIARY ATTACKS  Volunteers of Oglaigh na hEireann  operating in the large market town of  Dungannon, County Tyrone, carried out two  commercial bomb attacks on Thursday,  October 8th. The two blasts went off in  Scotch Street, one of the town's main  thoroughfares which runs off the town  square, scene of recent IRA bomb attacks  on the Northern and Ulster Banks and other  commercial premises.  Two blast incendiary bombs were placed  in two shops. Both bombs detonated,  causing   3/4 million pounds worth of  damage. The IRA statement emphasized  that ''despite claims by the SDLP that this  was a sectarian attack, this is not in fact true,  as one of the shops targeted v/as ov/ned by  a Catholic and this was purely a commercial  attack .  IRA Blasts London and Bangor  A massive Irish Republican Army  bomb exploded in the center of  Bangor late last Wednesday, causing  extensive damage in the town.  The Royal Ulster Constabulary admitted  that 20 minutes before the blast the 1R   liad  given a warning to protect civilians  The  warnings were phoned to the Samaritans  and Downtown Radio   No one was hurt,  The device went off in Lower Main Street,  and the sound was heard inoie than 15 miles  away   Hie street is the main commercial  and Shopping center of the town and close  to the the scafioni and the town's manna.  WellwotthS store seemed to have taken  the till  force oi the blast Rubble was  strewn across the street and windows were  broken    all    over    the    town RUC  communication lines were disrupted tor a  tune A fleet oi ambulances and lire engines  were reported to be 00 stand-by, bin they  were not called in The area was sealed off  hv CfOWn forces as bomb disposal experts  checked for further devices the explosion  was die first in tlie loyalist town m 12 years.  London  Meanwhile m London, three bombs,  believed to be part of an IRA campaign,  exploded last Wednesday Hie bombs went  off amid claim and counter-claim between  the Metropolitan constables and the IRA  over the warnings. The IRA holed that its  warnings were being ignored by die Met ami  described    the   constables*    action   as  *reckless,  The Met denied the charge,  though it admitted it had received warnings  trom the (iardai about bombs in the British  Bangor after the IRA strike  capital an hour before a blast at Edmonton.  The IRA statement, issued in Dublin,  Said warnings tad been telephoned to radio  stations an hour before devices were due to  gQ off. but that they had not been acted  upon The 1R A said,  Our volunteers carried  xHit blasts at two locations 00 the London  rail network and at a British army military  base ni I ondon. Attacks such as these will  continue until Britain declares its intention  to withdraw trom northeast Ireland. We  would again under linedie tact demonstrated  by the Ldmonton blast that the British  authorities' policy of ignoring warnings is  thus enefctngering civilian lives.   Scotland Yard said it had received no  such warnings and asked to comment later  would only add,  We are  not prepared to discuss that  at this stage.  At a news  conference later, Scotland  Yard's chief angrily  defended his force's  handling of the Ldmonton  blast claiming constables  could not have acted any  quicker. Commander  George Churchill-Coleman  confirmed that die Gardaf  has passed on a warning  about the bomb.  The Ldmonton blast  happened at about 4:40  p.m., at the height of the  rush      hour. Three  passengers on a passing train were hurt by  debris when  e bomb exploded at a road  overpass, but no one was seriously injured.  The second bomb went off four hours  later. Three persons suffered minor injuries  when it exploded, near the Territorial Army  center in Hammersmith. Soon after that, a  third bomb went off at a railroad line at  Harrow Road in Harlesdcn.  After the Fxlmonton bombing, a two-  mile stretch of the nearby North Circular  Road was closed and several adjoining  Streets sealed off, bringing traffic chaos to  the area.   Rail passengers also suffered  delays when a number of trains were rerouted The British Territorial Army  members were taken to Charing Cross  Hospital after being slighdy hurt in die  Hammersmith explosion. There were no  reports of any casualties in die third blast,  which happened at 9:10 p.m. under Harrow  Road bridge in I Iarlesden High Street.   Two feet of rail is missing, and there is  damage to trie bridge/' said a British Rail  spokesman, adding that no train was on die  track at the time.  Mr. Churchill-Coleman described die  IRA's claim that their bomb warnings had  been ignored as part of a plot to make die  crown look  confused, incompetent arid  inept.  He said that a recognized IRA  codeword had been used on 61 occasions  since last February. Bombs had exploded  22 limes, two others were made safe, and  37 calls were hoaxes.  Each call was  designed to confuse, mislead and disrupt us  here in the capital    The following day, British Prime  Minister John Major said in the House of  Commons that the IRA would be defeated.  He was forced to address the issue.  Responding to a question from Andrew  Hunter, the Conservative MP for  Basingstoke, about the IRA's series of  attacks in Ixmdon, Major said the fight  against die ERA was a priority Major's  comments echoed those of previous British  prime ministers who had failed to de feat the  IRA.  The Von e oi Irish Repcrih asism is America   
        