2    GAP*61  FITZGERALD'S EIGHT MONTHS AS FREE STATE PREMIER  IS  cu  honesty mate  lyinepti  BY KEVIN BURKE  GARRET FitzGerald's eight-  month term of office as Free  State premier, which ended in  Leinster House on Tuesday,  March 9th, was the shortest  premiership in the history ofthe  state. It ended with his credibility  in tatters and his ineptitude  exposed.  In the dying hours of his government,  on Monday night, the Fine Gael leader  U-turned for the last time, uselessly  abandoning the supposed sacrosanct  strictures of his vicious budget     on  VAT, subsidies and taxation of social  welfare     in a final vain attempt to buy  the necessary independent votes and win  the all-important prize of power.  And capital projects at Whitegateoil refinery,  Arigna mines and Dublin's port and docks site  were blithely promised at a cost which put the  unmentionable Knock airport in the shade.  If his political acumen before the January  budget had matched his lust for power after it,  the general election need not have taken place  and he could still be in office today.  HUNGER-STRIKE  It was on June 30th last year that Garret  FitzGerald's coalition government took over  from that of Charles Haughey, who had, to all  intents and purposes, lost the general election  because of his inaction on the H Block hunger-  strike.  FitzGerald, in the first heady hours of office  pinpointed the hunger-strike as his most urgent  priority. Four hunger-strikers were already dead  at that time; six more were to die.  In the next days he held a meeting with the  British ambassador, significantly veiled in  secrecy. And his first meeting with the hunger-  strikers' relatives on July 3rd, was lengthy, but  already concentrating on persuading them to  undermine the protest.  But following the death of Joe McDonnell  on July 8th, FitzGerald, raising the hunger-  strike for the first time in Leinster House, placed  the onus for tho deaths on the British government. He dispatched two of his senior ministers  to London, and later called on United States  president Ronald Reagan and the EEC to  intervene.  That was the high-point of his hunger-strike  effort. Discovering that actions were needed to  back up his words, he began to back off and by  tho end of July was publicly attempting to  wash his hands of tho crisis. His statements  from then on laid the blame on the IRA leaden  ship not the British government.  In the middle of August, relatives of the  hunger-strikers were forcibly removed from  government buildings.  ECONOMY  Meanwhile, Garret FitzGerald was well into  breaking his first set of economic electoral  promises. From the beginning of his government's term the cry went up that things were  much worse economically than he had imagined  and in fact the state was on the verqe of bank  ruptcy.  His first budget in mid-July, with a plethora  of punitive measures, signalled that the electoral  goodies wore not going to be delivered. Two  days after getting it through Leinster House he  sought to silence criticism within his own party,  and his coalition allies, the Labour Party, by  declaring a long summer holiday for the parliament to the end of October.  But throughout the summer the voices of  protest, among his own supporters and the vital  independents, grew louder, spurred on, as  August drew to a close, by a speech from his  right-wing  Minister  for  Industry John Kelly,      Garret FitzGerald's meeting with Margaret  Thatcher in London in November last year brought  more evidence of his political ineptitude and of his  readinoss to collaborate  likening social welfare recipients to 'cannibal  piglets'.  Almost continuous price increases fuelled  the grumblings and in September when FitzGerald went to chop the Tuam sugar factory as  part of his 'lame ducks' policy, the outcry  forced him to retract. In November, forty  thousand angry farmers marched on Dublin in  piotest at their worsening economic conditions.  FitzGerald turned his attention then to  wage costs and, as the centralised pay-deal talks  headed for collapse, launched a verbal attack  on workers' living standards which was enthusiastically taken up by employers' organisations.  But here again, there was disappointment  with his big talk when, as the year closed, he  agreed a public sector pay increase of 15 ,  which although well below inflation rates, was  most displeasing to pnvate sector employers.  CRUSADE  Under pressure politically because of his  inability to take any effective economic action,  FitzGerald, in September, hit, partly by accident, on a handy diversion.  With monumental hypocrisy, and with much  pious reference to Tone and Davis, he launched  what became known as his 'constitutional  crusade'. Supposed to be a total reform of the  Free State constitution of 1937, it was primarily  aimed, not at lemoving social injustice in the  South, but  at wooing loyalists in the North.  His concentration on the removal of Articles  2 and 3 from the constitution, which claim  territorial jurisdiction over thirty-two counties,  and Ins description of the Free State as sectarian, won him praise ftom Doth the former  Vanguard leader, now Official Unionist, William  Craig, and from the murderous Ulster Defence  Association.  With the hunger-strike over in October, FitzGerald felt the way cleai for more extended  collaboration with Britain. A meeting with  Northern   direct-ruler   James  Prior  in  Dublin  preceded   a   summit  in   London with  British  premier Margaret Thatcher on November 6th.  LONDON  Before FitzGerald went to London he was  nicely set up by Charles Haughey, who claimed  that out of the Anglo-Irish study groups, which  he had himself instigated with Thatcher, would  come great things including a three-tier Anglo-  Irish Council which should be announced at the  forthcoming meeting.  FitzGerald returned from London with an  Anglo-Irish Council which was merely a name  stuck on the existing system of meetings  between government leaders and civil servants.  He did not have the third tier, much-vaunted by  Haughey, of a council of parliamentary members  from London and Dublin. In London, FitzGerald  had been craven. Humiliated by Britain's  contempt for its weak hunger-strike protests,  and trumpeting abroad that his state was  bankrupt, he cut a sorry figure. To win his way  back into Britain's good books he promised  further collaboration in the future by way of  joint courts to include Northern judges to try  political offences in the South and by allowing  RUC men to interrogate suspects in Free State  garda stations.  Meanwhile, both sides agreed to give the  Criminal Law (Jurisdiction) Act a further  try as an alternative to extradition, and by the  end of his term in office FitzGerald had six of  the Crumlin Road escapees imprisoned by the  Dublin Special Court and the first Irishman in  the same dock for political offences alleged to  have taken place in England.  Also, on the home front, legislation was  being prepared to extend already repressive  legislation, to end the right to bail, the right  to silence in custody and further extend garda  powers.  CENSORSHIP  But Garret FitzGerald will not just be  remembered for his ardent collaboration with  Britain nor for the viciousness of his economic  measures in breach of his election promises.  There were plenty of other memorable points  which left his personal imprint on the office  of Free State premier.  Although a supposed liberal, he has nothing  to show from his term to support this image.  On the question of political censorship he  displayed his attitude by the appointment of  the hard-line Patrick Cooney as Minister for  Posts and Telegraphs.  In August, he drew widespread criticism at  home, and derision abroad, by banning the  newly elected Westminster MP for Fermanagh  and South Tyrone, Owen Carron, from RTE.  And in the January election FitzGerald's  determination to silence his republican critics,  inspired an extension on the ban on Sinn Fein,  which backfired when the enabling legislation  was ruled unconstitutional by a High Court  judge.  JOBBERY  Among the few grateful admirers who FitzGerald will have won for his period as premier  are the British agents, the Littlejohn brothers,  and the loyalist bomber Norman Parkinson of  the UDA, all of whom were freed early from  Mountjoy prison.  There are also several beneficiaries of his  corrupt patronage in the form of highly-  paid jobs in the government and civil service.  During his short spell, an array of political  appointments of this kind include several of his  political cronies and their relatives, including  his own son and daughter-in-law. Even in the  dying days of his government the hypocrite  who had previously denounced political  jobbery made partisan appointments in the  garda, the judiciary and to state bodies.  Garret FitzGerald goes down as yet another  Irish leader who has failed and betrayed his  people.  Eight months of Garret FitzGerald were  more than enough.  Dublin's  Clemency for  UDA Prisoner  The surprise release from  Mountjoy Prison of UDA man  Frederick Parkinson has produced some criticism alleging  that the same humanitarian concern is not extended to Republican prisoners on either side of  the Border.  Parkinson (37), the father of  two children, was serving a 12-  year sentence for an attempted  firebomb blitz in Dublin. He  was convicted of having incendiary devices and firearms in  1977. He would have been due  for release in 1986 with full  remission.  But, following intervention on  his behalf by various people and  organizations, he has been given  a full remission on humanitarian  grounds     on condition that he  does not come back into the  Free State.  For much of his period in  Mountjoy, Parkinson shared accommodations in the prison's  basement with the Littlejohn  brothers who were released last  year, also on humanitarian  grounds, with half their sentences  still to serve.  Among the organizations which  worked for Parkinson's release  was the Catholic lay organization, the Knights of St. Colum-  banus. Among the individuals  who helped were Bishop Com-  iskey, one of Dublin's auxiliary Catholic bishops, and a  Unionist former mayor of Belfast,  John Carson.  Carson became friendly with  the then Lord Mayor of Dublin,  Fine Gael TD Fergus O'Brien,  and last year they went on a  joint tour of the United States.  Carson admits that O'Brien   opened up negotiations  for  him with the result that he met  Dr. Garret FitzGerald and the  then Minister for Justice, Jim  Mitchell.  James Eccles, until recently  Supreme Knight in Ireland of  the Knights of St. Columbanus,  says that, together with Denis  Maloney, also a Knight, and the  solicitor who defended Parkinson, he visited him in prison on  a number of occasions. Afterwards, they made representation  to the Minister for Justice.  At a press conference at UDA  headquarters in Belfast, Parkinson praised the humanitarian  policies of Fine Gael.  They  were the people who released  me, and I am very grateful,  he  said.  He added that he now regrets  having gone into the Free State  with the intention of doing damage. He had been treated well  in prison and those Catholics  and Protestants who had intervened to bring about his release  contrasted starkly with  certain  Loyalist politicians  whom he  didn't name.  He said that he would be remaining a member of the UDA.  
        