THE  i  RISH   The Fools, The Fools, They Have Left Us Our Fenian Dead And While Ireland Holds These Graves, Ireland Unfree Will Never Be At Peace...': Padraic Pearse.  VOL. II  NO. 46  SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 16,1974  ;. * x-sr.1   8.00 PER YEAR  15 CENTS       10 PENCE  UNERAL  Unarmed Man Shot  By British Thugs  The Tricolour-draped coffin, with a black beret placed on top, bearing the remains of Gerard Coney  leaving the home of his parents.  and seeing a number of boys. He also  saw soldiers on a hillside nearby.  Some of the boys approached a van  and a shot rang out. The man who  was subsequently killed ran down the  road away from the soldiers for about  . 75 yards with his arms in the air.  Another shot rang out and the man  fell. The eyewitness did not see a gun  at any stage by those who attempting  to hijack the van.  Fennell's widow, Norah, who is  expecting another child in the New  Year, said:  We had been in England  but came home a year ago. The only  job Gerry could get was in Whiterock     industrial estate. But he had been off  sick this week.   Mrs. Fennell's mother, Mrs. Winnie  Pollock, said:  I got to the scene of  the shooting just as they were putting  Gerry in the ambulance. I went with  him. In the ambulance I opened his  Continued on Page 3  A young Belfastman, shot in the  hip by British troops at the scene of  an attempted hijacking in the  Twinbrook area, was fatally wounded  by another bullet in the back as he  ran with his hands raised to show he  was unarmed, relatives said.  He was identified as 27-year-old  Mr. Gerard Fennell, of Broom Park,  Twinbrook, married with a  seven-year-old daughter, Sharon.  The shooting happened about 200-  yards from his home-at the junction  of Stewartstown Road and  Summerhill Road and the shots came  from a nearby hillside manned by  soldiers. They claimed that Mr.  Fennell was 'an armed hijacker' and  was shot dead  when he turned his  gun on them.   According to the military, troops  had stopped another man removing  his gun after he was hit. But the  driver of the van involved in the  hijack attempt maintained, later, that  the man who spoke to him and told  him to drive his vehicle across the  road was not armed.  Another eye-witness also insisted  that, at no stage in the hijack, did he  see anyone with guns.  A British Army statement alleged  the man they shot was holding a gun  to the head of the van driver. He was  challenged twice and then he pointed  his gun at the soldiers.  The troops opened fire and the  man was seen to drop. He then got  up-still holding his gun-and went to  take cover behind the van,  the  military statement went on.  Father Eamonn Magee, of St.  Luke's, Twinbrook, said last night he  had spoken to the driver of the van  within minutes of the shooting. The  driver told him, specifically that the  man who spoke to him and asked him  to drive the vehicle across the road  was not armed. The driver had said:   I could swear he had no gun.   Father Magee said he had  questioned the driver carefully on the  point. There had been another man  present at the van, but the driver  could not say whether he was in  possession of a gun.  Another eye witness told of  looking out the window of his home  Hunger Strike Protest  By Republican Priso  mors  The thousands of mourners who  attended the funeral near Coalisland  this week of Long Kesh escapee,  Hugh Gerard Coney, heard that other  Republican prisoners in the  concentration camp had started a  hunger strike in protest against the  conditions under which they had to  live.  This was revealed at the graveside,  by Co. Tyrone Sinn Fein chairman,  Mr. Aidan Corrigan, when he read a  letter which he said had been  smuggled out of the jail, the previous  day, by a Co. Tyrone prisoner.   He asked me,  said Mr. Corrigan,   to   tell  you  of  the  insufferable,  inhuman conditions and indignities  which the men in Long Kesh have to  suffer. He said that one group had  already gone on hunger strike and  that others would follow suit.   Continued on Page 4  ON SATURDAY NOV. 16  A PROTEST PICKET WILL  BE HELD OUTSIDE THE  OFFICES OF BRITISH  AIRWAYS IN N.Y.  TO PROTEST INTERNMENT  OF IRISH MEN AND WOMEN  IN BRITISH JAILS  TIME: 2 TO 6 p.m.  Upwards of 8,000 people attended  the funeral of Hugh Gerard Coney,  the 24-year-old Annaghmore  (Coalisland) man who was shot dead  by British troops during Wednesday  morning's escape attempt by  Republican detainees from Long Kesh  Concentration Camp.  Coney, who was described in death  notices as a lieutenant in the East  Tyrone Command of the Provisional  I.R.A., was buried with full military  honours in St. Patrick's Cemetery,  Clonoe, a mile from his home.  The coffin, which was draped with  the Tricolour and a football jersey of  Clonoe G.F.C., of which he was a  member, was borne for a quarter-mile  from his home on the shoulders of  fellow team-mates and members of  the Republican movement.  A guard of honour of Fianna  Eireann and Clonoe G.F.C. marched  on both sides of the hearse to St.  Patrick's Church.  The remains were received by Rev.  Patrick Coyle, C.C., and Rev. Father  Joachim, O.F.M., one of the chaplains  at Long Kesh, and the priest who  administered the Last Rites to Mr.  Coney at the time of his death.  Speaking during Requiem Mass  Father Coyle said they were there to  extend their sympathy to James and  Kitty Coney, the parents of the dead  man, and to his brothers and sisters.  He added:  We in this parish have  over the past few years prayed at  Mass for peace and justice for all of  Ireland. In the days ahead, we will  continue to do so, and we will  remember the deceased in our  prayers.   Following the Requiem Mass, Mr.  Coney was interred in the adjoining  cemetery, where, following the  sounding of the Last Post, men in  para-military uniforms fired a volley  of shots over the grave.  In a graveside oration Seamus  Loughran of Belfast, an ex-internee,  said he prayed that the body of  Gerard Coney would be the last one  to be brought from the  hell-hole  of  Long Kesh. He added:  We have a  duty to do all in our power to bring  about the closure of Long Kesh and  an end to internment .  Mr. Loughran, Sinn Fein organiser  in Belfast, said that, next to love of  God came love of one's country, and  nowhere more so than in Ireland had  this proved true.  It's truly a noble  thing to die for one's country,  he  said.  It's one thing to give one's life  in the heat of battle. It's an entirely  different thing to dedicate your life in  pursuit of what you believe in, an  ideal that you know can, and  Con tinued on Page 3  Provos Hi-jack  British Army Mail  The Provisional IRA in Belfast on  Monday claimed that they were  studying a haul of British Army  documents seized jn a mail van  hold-up near the military  headquarters in the North last week.  Included in the haul, said the IRA,  were letters to girl friends, wives and  relatives from soldiers detailing army  life    the general theme of which was  that complete demoralisation of the  British soldier in Ireland.   The IRA said that the mail bags  also contained   10,000 in cash,  together with money order payments  to informers, details of commercial  suppliers to the Army, confidential  military documents, details of  undercover cars and by plain clothes  patrols, lists of deserters and absentees,  and the names and addresses of UDR  personnel. In a statement the IRA  said:  The Belfast Brigade intend to  act immediately on the considerable  amount of information obtained.   The R.U.C. confirmed that five  armed men had hi-jacked a Post  Office van near Bridge Street car park  in Lisburn at 6:30 p.m. last Friday.  A police spokesman said that the  van and its crew were driven to a side  road four miles away near  Hillsborough. There the raiders took  several mail bags from the van and  left the crew with the vehicle. The  exact number of mail bags taken was  not disclosed. The Army made no  comment on the incident.  Along with their statement on the  raid, the I.R.A. released photostat  copies of military documents, some  of which were stamped  restricted.   The statement said:  On Friday,  November 1, 1974, in a well  co-ordinated and selective operation,  an intelligence unit of the Belfast  Brigade captured mail belonging to  the British Army.   Then the IRA listed 11 items,  beginning with letters from soldiers,  details of commercial suppliers to the  Army and lists of deserters and  absentees.  One item was money orders (Giros)   made payable to individuals from all  areas of the Six Counties.  The IRA  said:  From this we now have a clear  picture of who is supplying the  British Army with information.   Other items mentioned were:  confidential military documents  regarding a conference relating to the  building of Long Kesh; confidential  military documents to all police  stations; a list containing names and  addresses of UDR personnel; a list of  male and female applicants for the  UDR and other security forces  together with details of  referees,   and letters from people in the 26  Counties stating that they wished to  join the British Army.  The IRA said that the details of  undercover cars included tax books  and details of car number plates.  The Army admitted that some mail  from soldiers was probably in the  bags seized by the I.R.A., but it  denied that any confidential  documents were in the sacks. A  spokesman, said:  Anything of a  sensitive nature would go through the  British Forces Post or via a special  courier.   
        