(esh Loyalists Threaten  Hunger Stele To De;  The trouble-torn Long Kesh  Concentration Cam was simmering  on the verge of yet another crisis as  more than 230 Loyalist prisoners  vowed to go on a mass hunger strike   to the death  at midnight to protest  at the  sub-human conditions  in the  Loyalist compounds.  The men, who are all UVF and Red  Hand prisoners, have taken their  action as part of an escalating UVF  plan that follows the massive protest  in the North when the Loyalist  caused widespread disruption with  more than 70 hoax bomb scares in  'hijacked vehicles.  Another 200 Loyalist prisoners in  Long Kesh, who belong to the UDA,  are to decide whether or not they will  join the hunger strike. A spokesman  for the UVF prisoners in Belfast said  that they have been refusing food  from prison authorities for two weeks  and have been surviving on food  parcels brought in from outside.  Many of them are ill because of the  conditions, which have been  aggravated since the Republicans  burned down 80  of the camp last  month.  The only difference between  Long Kesh and a Nazi concentration  camp is that mass graves are not being  Funeral Attended  Continued from Page 1  pro bably  will, cost you your life.   The dice was loaded against the  Republican movement, Mr. Loughran  added, in terms of British Army  strength and  Britain's misuse of the  law and involvement in torture,  degredation and murder. Yet this  choice of martyrdom has been  accepted in every generation of our  race, and great and noble souls have  flung themselves into conflict, only to  be crushed under the heels of the  invader. Yet, again and again, rose the  dominant need to be Irish and to be  seen to be Irish and to fight for all  that is truly Christian in the way of  justice.   Mr. Loughran went on:  Love of  Ireland could be said to be a love of  death, but her children have never  failed to answer the call to arms.  They have never ceased to love her.   Hugh Coney's name was now joined  with those of Pearse and Barry, he  said.  Demanding the ending of  internment, Mr. Loughran said:  Our  people must not be left to fight alone.  There are many thousands of  Ireland's sons and daughters abroad.  They must also get into the fight. It's  a fight for national emancipation.  Realise your mighty strength.  Together, we can accomplish what we  please. Use it now for there is only  one ending-success and the triumph  of right and justice over iniquity and  wrong.   The dead man's parents, James and  Christmas Dance.  For Irish Relief  Under a banner of  United  Brooklyn Irish  the Bayridge and  Flatbush units of Irish Northern Aid  are scheduling a joint affair to raise  fundsforthe common goal   The thoughts of the Irish people  suffering through another Christmas  of deprivation are spurning their  efforts to raise funds to be turned  over in time to aid the families of  prisoners in North East Ireland prior  to Christmas.  The joint Committee is comprised  of: Evelyn and Bill Gallagher, Patrick  Biesty, Pat Riordan and James Smith  of Bayridge Unit. Kate and John  Toolan, Mary Cunningham, Ann  Cusick, Mary and Pat McNicholl, Pat  Mullin and Inge and Sean Toner of  the Flatbush Unit.  The affair will be 'held at  Cummings Bros. American Legion  Post, 4516, Ave. D. Brooklyn on  November 30th, 1974 from 9 p.m. to  1 a.m. Two bottles per table of ten  plus set ups. The donation is  7.50.  For table reservations call J. Toolan  212-IN-2-6550 or A. Cusick  451-0819, M. McNicholl 469-9874.  dug outside the wire,  Loyalist  Assemblyman Mr. Hugh Smyth said  at the weekend.  According to Mr. Smyth, 80  of  the Loyalist prisoners were suffering  from 'flu, or a severe cold. Because of  the deterioration in the conditions of  the men, due to the failure of the  prison authorities and the  Government to act, the prisoners had  decided on the hunger strike as the  only way to decent conditions. The  strike would continue  to the death,   or until the authorities took action.  It was later, reported that the  Loyalist prisoners are to be moved to  rebuilt accomodation in the  compound.  The UVF, meanwhile, has decided  not to contest next year's election for  the Northern Ireland Convention,  while its recently formed political  wing, the Volunteer Party, has  dropped plans for a direct challenge  for parliamentary influence.  Instead, the UVF intends to  restrict its political activity to that of  a ginger group. Members will be  encouraged to join other right-wing  Unionist parties as long as this does  not interfere with their duties as  members of the UVF.   Kitty Coney, and his girl friend Eilish  McSloy followed the coffin along  with his brothers, Jim and Frank, and  sisters Collette and Noelle, from the  family home, a short distance outside  Coalisland, to St. Patrick's Church,  Clonoe.  Wreaths from relatives and many  Republican organisations were laid on  the grave.  During the funeral a British army  helicopter flew overhead, and roads  leading to Coalisland were manned by  R.U.C. and British troops.  Coalisland came to a standstill and  black flags were hung at windows and  street corners. Businesses closed down  in many Republican areas as a mark  of respect and sympathy  demonstrations attracted large crowds  in Belfast, Derry and Newry.  Vehicles were hijacked and set on  fire in the Dungannon area. As a  result of one hijacking, an hotel  function planned for pensioners in  Ballygawley estate had to be  cancelled.  British Thugs  Continued from Page 1  shirt and I could see he had been shot  in the back right through the heart.    I was told, earlier, that soldiers  were lying behind trees on high  ground overlooking the new road at  Wandleside factory. They were just  waiting for an innocent victim to  walk out of Twinbrook estate.   I was told by a person who saw  the shooting that Gerry had just  asked the driver to put the van across  the road when there was a shot. Gerry  fell, shot through the hip and, as he  went down, he raised his hands to  show that he had n,o weapon.  - Then, there was another shot-the  one in the back that killed him. They  say it was a 'black' soldier who shot  Gerry.  'OFFICER'CLAIM  A man who claimed to be speaking  on behalf of the 1st Battalion, Belfast  Brigade, Provisional I.R.A. said  Fennell was an officer in their G  Company.  The spokesman said he was  murdered in cold blood.   We have been expecting reprisals  against our volunteers after our  successful operations over the past  few days,  he added.  ii fgi ira  On Friday evening November 1st  1974 a capacity crowd was on hand  at Gaelic Park Casino to pay tribute  to Mario Biaggi. Congressman Biaggi a  strong vocal supporter of Ireland's  right to freedom and self rule arrived  at 11 p.m. with his gracious wife  Marie and their lovely daughter. A  standing ovation was accorded the  Guest of Honor as he entered the  Casino with his family. Congressman  Biaggi, who has been long deserving  of this  Irish Night  due to his  constant speaking out in Congress on  behalf of our war torn homeland,  mingled and introduced his family to  the packed house.  On opening the evenings  ceremonies, Inwood Irish Northern  Aid Chairman, Mike Meehan  presented a plaque to Margaret  Clancy Muldoon, a recently married  colleen from County Leitrim, for the  dedication and outstanding services to  the cause of Irish Freedom over the  past three years. Guest Speaker Sister  St. Hugh, editor of The Irish People  Newspaper was then introduced to  the receptive gathering. Sister spoke  on Biaggi's loyalty to Ireland and to    the Irish community in this country.   It would be an insult to Mr.  Biaggi , said Sister St. Hugh,  if we  even attempted to list the times and  the occasions when Congressman  Biaggi took a stand on behalf of the  people of Ireland.  According to  Sister St. Hugh,  no page is large  enough to contain the number of  occasions of dedicated service Mr.  Biaggi has rendered to Ireland and to  the Irish and Irish American people in  the United States.  In concluding Sister St. Hugh  presented Congressman Biaggi with a  plaque on behalf of The Irish People.  Biaggi again received a standing  ovation.  In presenting the plaque Sister St.  Hugh said she had one sorrow and  that was that she was not presenting  it to him as the mayor of New York  City.  We know one thing for sure, if  Mr. Biaggi was the mayor of New  York City we wouldn't have British  double decker buses coming into the  city next July .  Overwhelmed with the applause  and the introduction Mr. Biaggi  stepped forward holding the plaque  and with pride glistening in his eyes  he thanked the people who placed so  much trust and hope in him.  ht A Huge Success  en  CD  CO  Sr. St. Hugh makes a presentation to Congressman Biaggi.   Somehow or other,  Mr. Biaggi  said,  when the picture of Ireland was  being painted somewhere along the  line the brush of justice never  touched that little island and ever  since it has been the victim of British  oppression .  Calling on the Irish people to unite  Mr. Biaggi pointed out that politicians  must be made to believe that the Irish  issue will be politically profitable to  them otherwise he said,  your  representatives will not take a stand  for your cause .  He pointed out that there are only  six Greek Congressmen in Congress  yet they were able to hold up  Congress until aid was given to the  600,000 Greeks in Cyprus.  What ,  he asked are your fifty-two  Irish-American Congressmen doing  for you?  The final speaker of the evening  was Father Vallaley who had just  arrived from County Tyrone. The  good Father related many stories on  the atrocities that have become an  everyday occurrence in Ireland's six  occupied counties, and pleaded for  total support of Irish Northern Aid as  this organization would ultimately be  responsible for driving the British  Government and Troops out of  Ireland.  Prior to singing the National  Anthems Bob McCann asked for  support of the Baltimore Four, now  laying in U.S. Federal Prisons because  they chose to help our Freedom  Fighters in Ireland.  This Inwood Irish Northern Aid  sponsored Tribute under the  chairmanship of Tyrone's Sean  McGonnell and his committee of Pat    Brian Clarke, Danny McElroy,  Kevin Duffy, Vera Baker, Brendan  Heagney, Jim Touhy, Mike   Marion  Loftus and Carmel Costelloe did an  excellent job in catering to the large  crowd. As the evening came to an end  Mike Meehan presented a check for   3,500.00 to the U.S. Representative,  Irish Northern Aid Matt Higgins to be  used in buying warm clothing for the  Irish men and women now interned in  various concentration camp.s  throughout Ireland.  Inwood Vice Chairman Pat Clarke on left and Dance Chairman Sean McGonnell on right look on as  presentation is made to Margaret Muldoon by Matt Higgins.  r  (212)  751-5470  Open  7 days  a week  L  O'LUN    NET'S   915 2nd Ave. N.Y.C. (betw. 48th   49th)  Live Country Music And Dancing  MODERN COUNTRY MUSIC  Monday Through Saturday  BLUE GRASS EVERY SUNDAY  FOOD SERVED and BOOM AVAILABLE  FOB PABTIES  1  J  Shannon Travel Service, Inc.  75-24 37th Ave., Jackson Heights,  N.Y. 11372  212-639-0667 or 212-639-7530.  We Fill All Your Travel Needs - Domestic And Internationally      Air-Cruises-HotelsTcurs-Packages-Youth Fairs, Etc.  8-Day Specials To Europe  Patrick J. Neville, ?idie McManus, Joseph Whalen  
        