OCTOBER 31,1992  THE IRISH PEOPLE  REAGAN/BUSH  MOB ABANDONING SHIP  The final countdown has begun in  the nation's capital. Defeat and  desperation are in the air. Lifeboats  are filling up outside government  agencies faster than they did on the  night the mighty Titanic sank in the  waters off Newfoundland. For  twelve years, the country has been  dominated by the greedy and amoral  Reagan/Bush mob. Now, the clock  is running out.  The plundering of America's natural and  industrial resources, the loss of our  sovereignty, and the erosion of our  democratic values under these scoundrels  and their surrogates, has been  unprecedented. The offenders are now  running for cover.  As election day approaches, the  ubiquitous smirk on George Bush is  beginning to disappear. A Bill Clinton/Al  Gore victory is adistinct possibility. Capitol  Hill pundits are predicting that the busiest  person in the next administration will be the  Attorney General. Hurray   The job of getting to the bottom of the  white-collar crimes caused by cronies of  Reagan/Bush will be enormous. Neil Bush,  one of tlie President's sons, named in the  Silverado S   L failure, is just a small player  in the larger drama.  Irish Americans have been in the  forefront of warning the people about the  excesses of these charlatans. From the  extradition case of Joe Doherty to the cruel  ordeal of Sean Mackin and the  Boston  Three , from Francis Gildemew to James  Smydi and Kevin Barry Artt, our voices  have been raised. As a result, some of us  have been harassed by agencies of the  UnitedStatesgovernment.Nevertheless, we  have also cautioned about Britain's growing  economic stranglehold (now S125 billion)  in this country and their criminal  interference with our federal elections.  IranContragate, the BCCI mess (now  being referred to as the Bank of Crooks and  Criminals), the merger mania piracies and  the BNL Iraq scandal   all happened during  Bush's watch. The White House has played  a major part in these sordid sagas and in their  subsequentcoverup. Things are presently so  bad, and morale so low in the Bush  Administration, thattheCentral Intelligence  Agency and the Federal Bureau of  Investigation are openly investigating each  other. Daggers have been drawn.  BRITISH TIES  The S500 billion looting of America's S    L's took place while George Bush  not  only looked the other way, but actively  intervened to keep a failing S   L open .  (See Jonathan Kwitney's expose', Village  Voice, Oct. 20th). Kwitney reports that   hundreds of millions of dollars in  questionable loans ended up enriching the  friends of George Bush, the CIA, favorite  Republican causes, among them the contras  and Jonas Savimbi's war in Angola.  He  connects Anglo-American predators,  confederates of Bush and ex-Secretary of  State James Baker, in Houston, New York  and Washington, D.C., to the S   L  catastrophe.  Now those who brought the nation  the grossly inept Ed Meese, Richard  Tricky  Dick  Thornburgh, and the bumbling  William P. Barr, in the role of Attorney  General, are abandoning the ship of state.  The sorry chapter on the monumental  mugging of the American taxpayers and  carjacking of our revered Bill of Rights is  mercifully coming to an end.  Enormous amounts of wealth were  corruptly transferred from tlie many to the  few during tlie last 12 years. Justice requires  that the guilty be punished and the monies  restored. It also mandates that the previous  wrongs done to the Irish American  community by the Reagan/Bush regime be  rectified by die new Democratic  Administration. It is time also to terminate  die misnamed  special relationship  with  Britain.  Absent a Democratic collapse,  assisted covertly by thugs from Whitehall,  it looks like curtain time for Bush and his  hatchetman, J. Danforth  Danny Boy   Quayle. Good riddance  The country has  suffered enough under these anglophiles.  WHERE IS IRELAND'S  DESMOND TUTU?   We live in a moral universe.  Right and wrong do matter. The truth will  out in the end,  said Archbishop 1 )esmond  Tutu. The winner of die 1984 Nobel Peace  l ize spoke at Johns Hopkins University,  in Baltimore, on October 17th, before an  overflow audience of admirers. I could not  help but think while listening to the words  of this great champion of freedom for South  Africa,  Where is Ireland's Desmond  Tutu?  Where indeed   Recently, the entire hierarchy of  the Irish Church journeyed over to Rome  to celebrate the feast day of one of the saints.  No one dared to raise the truth about British  violence in the six counties. Not one  The  notion of Bishop Tutu not speaking the truth  about South Africa is simply unthinkable.  And yet for Ireland it is considered  commonplace not to speak out on the  situation in the north.  Tutu said of the struggle for self-  determination in his homeland,  No matter  how many guns you use, no matter how  many people get killed., it is an inexorable  truth that freedom will prevail in the end,  that injustice and repression and violence  will not have the last word.  The moral  intensity of his expression held most of tlie  audience mesmerized.  PAGE 7  TWO BRAVE  DISSENTERS  On April 18,1989, two brave Irish  Former President Ronald Reagan with former Irish Prime Minister  Garret Fitzgerald  How did we get into this fix where  we feel so alienated from so many of our  clergy on the national question? Since tlie  Treaty of Maynooth, the church has  become, in facu if not in name, an ally of  the colonizers (See Father Joe McVeigh's  The Wounded Church). In their Faustian  bargain with Whitehall, die clergy have  moved from being our spiritual advisers to  agents for maintaining the political status  quo. This is a role Uiat their predecessors,  the priestly druids, could never imagine  The druids were always of and for  the people   true servants of the tribe. The  idea thai they could serve any other master  was alien to their calling. This is why Julius  Caesar saw lit to crush the droidic order  after he conquered die Celts in ancient Gaul.  He rightly feared the druids' unique role in  maintaining the solidarity and viability of  the race.  parish priests, 1 Esmond Wilson and Joseph  McVeigh, direcdy addressed tlie Irish  Catholic hierarchy. In a pamphlet,  appropriately entitled,  The Truth Will Set  You Eree*  they took the Bishops to task.   You have ignored,  they wrote,   tlie basic cause of political violence in  Ireland: The inability of the British state to  govern justly By calling for acceptance of  the armed institutions of the unjust and  antidemocratic northern state, you are  contributing to the continuation of the  conflict rather than its resolution   They  pleaded with the Bishops to call for a   moratorium on one-sided condemnations  of violence, to advocate dialog with all the  parties, and to acknowledge that it is an  unjust government which is at the root of  die conflict in die occupied six counties    The Bishops, sinfully, chose to ignore the  petition of the two dissenting prelates.  CELTIC NEW YEAR  The MacBride Chapter,  Irish Northern Aid, will hold their annual  Celtic New Year celebration on  Saturday evening, October 31st, at  Hibernian House, Pearl River.  James Bredin, a native of Leitrim and long-time Pearl  River resident, has been selected as Celt of the Year.  Music and entertainment will be by  Jim McPhail. Ken Tierney will  discuss Samhain lore.  The candle-lighting ceremony for the six Celtic  nations will be followed by the Celts Circle of Unity.  Refreshments will be provided.  Donation  12.50. For reservations, call  David Donohue, (914) 359-3443.   Editor's note: The opinions in the column are those of the writer and not necessarily those of the paper.   J  The Voice of Irish Re pi riicasism is America   
        