Greenwood Lake  w  Ok  o  w  GO  s  w  a  Ou  Waiting for Beckett  Actor-director-playwright Jim  Sheridan, ofthe Abbey Theatre  and the Project Arts Centre in  Dublin, will appear at the Irish  Rebel Theatre for a limited engagement the last weekend in  March. Mr. Sheridan will perform  his original one-man show,  Waiting for Beckett,  adapted from  the writings of Samuel Beckett.  Jim Sheridan was only a few  years out of college when his  promising work at The Abbey  Theatre led to his joining the  Project Arts Centre as Theatre  Director in 1976 and to his  election as Chairman in 1977.  The Project Arts Centre is well  known and sometimes notorious in  Ireland for its quality and daring In  1977, Yeats'  On Baile's Strand   and  Purgatory,  one of the  many Project Arts Centre productions under Jim Sheridan's  direction, was taken as Ireland's  entry to the Edinburgh Festival.      Mr. Sheridan organized and managed the Project Theatre Company for its American tour of   Waiting for Godot  in 1980.  He also founded T. Company, a  Dublin children's and street theatre group, directed Sean O'Caseys    Within the Gates  at the Lyric  Theatre in Belfast, and in 1980  returned to the Abbey to direct   The Blue Macushla  by Tom  Murphy.  Jim Sheridan is the author of   Waiting for Beckett,   The  Happy-Go-Likeable Man,    Mobile Homes,   Where All  Your Dreams Come True,   The  Halfpenny Place,  and  Inner  City - Outer Space.  In 1973,  he received the Macaulay Fellowship in Drama from the Arts  Council of Ireland, which had  been awarded only once previously: to Brian Friel in 1963.  Performances of  Waiting for  Beckett  will be held at the Irish  Rebel Theatre of An Claideamh  Soluis/The Irish Arts Center,  553 West 51st Street, on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, March  25th, 26th, and 27th at 8:00  p.m., and on Sunday, March  28th at 3:00 p.m. Tickets are   5; TDF vouchers accepted.  For reservations and information,  call (212) 757-3318 between 1  and 5 p.m. weekdays.  Irish Rebel Theater  The Irish Rebel Theater's  second production in 1982 will  be the American premiere of  Bernard FarrclPs comedy,  I  Do Not Like Thee, Dr. Fell.   Performances will begin Thursday,  April 8th, and run through Sunday,  April 25 th.   I Do Not Like Thee, Dr.  Fell  takes a satirical look at  that phenomenon of western society, the group encounter session.  Mr. Farrell's comedic style of  dialogue in this play has entertained audiences throughout Ireland  since Its world premiere at The  Peacock Theatre in Dublin in   In baseball, you get three  strikes, then you're out. Since  this is the State Legislature,  we've decided to spare the Governor from missing a third successive term. It's our ball and  we're waiting for the next governor.   Assemblywoman Florence Sullivan (R-C, Bay Ridge, Sunset  Park) said today that she is  postponing her campaign to create  a permanent day to honor the  memory of Commodore John  Barry, founder of the American  Navy and one of America's first  Irish-American patriots.   Since the Commodore was  a Navy man, we think he will  understand that we are sailing a  different tack,  Sullivan said.   On March 3rd, the State Assembly passed our resolution  asking the Governor to declare  September 13, 1982 as 'John  1979.  Variety called it  the best full-  length play by a new Irish playwright in a long time,  and the  Irish Times was quoted as saying   a devastating lampoon of one  ofthe modern western world's  most chic vogues.   Bernard Farrell's dramatic  career began in 1975 when his  one-act play  Goodbye Smiler,  It's Been Nice  was presented  at the Lantern Theatre in Dublin.  This was followed by  I Do Not  Like Thee, Dr. Fell,   Legs  Eleven,   Canaries,  and  All  in Favour Say No,  all at The  John Barry  Barry Day'. Next year, we'll  ask a new governor to sign our  bill making that date a state  observance as a permanent thing.   Governor Hugh Carey, bless  his Irish heart, won't get a third  chance to veto legislation supported by every Irish-American  organization in New York State  and possibly the nation,  Sullivan declared. State Senator  Hugh Farley of Schenectady is  Senate sponsor of the resolution  along with Senator Chris Mega  of Brooklyn.  Born in Wexford, Ireland,  John Barry was one ofthe new  nation's first patriots. His commission as Captain ofthe frigate  United States was the very first  naval commission in the USA.  The Irish-American Revolutionary War hero is regarded as  the founder of the US Navy.   Our country has heroes, but   1  Abbey. His television adaption of   Legs Eleven  is scheduled for  its premiere on Irish television  later this month.  Performances of  I Do Not  Like Thee, Dr. Fell  are scheduled  for Thursday through Saturday  evenings at 8:00 p.m and Sunday  afternoons at 3:00 p.m., April  8th through the 25 th. At the  Irish Arts Center, 553 West  51 st Street, in Manhattan. Tickets  are  5 and TDF vouchers will  be accepted.  For reservations and information,  call the Irish Arts Center at  757-3318.  today Commodore Barry is not  yet accorded the place that he  deserves in the creation of our  nation. He should have a niche  alongside the Hamiltons, Jones',  Washingtons and Franklins,   Assemblywoman Sullivan said.  Brooklyn's John Barry Club  is named for the Revolutionary  War hero.  Answers to  Last Week's Puzzle  Brooklyn Unit INA  Social  At The  Hibernian Hall  4621 Avenue D  Saturday, April 3rd  From 8:50 p.jW. till ?  For Info. Call: 833-8854/945-6044  I r  The  KESHCARRIGAN    Bookshop  90 West Broadway  (at Chambers Street)  New York, NY 10007  Hours: 11-6  Tel.: 962-4237  IRISH BOOKS  NEW  OUT OF PRINT I  I  IRISH RECORDS  5 minute walk from  Work' rradc Center and Cilj Hall  W-M   MM   MM   MM   MM   MM   MM   MM*   MM   MM   wJ  The Greenwood Lake Gaelic  Cultural Society will present  the Paddy Noonan Irish Show  at 8 p.m. on Saturday, April 3rd  at Middletown Junior High School  in Middletown, New York. The  proceeds will benefit  Project  Children . The show's stars include Hal Roach, Mary Hegarty,  the Paddy Noonan Band, and  the talented tenor, Louis Browne.   Project Children  is a six-  year-old program that provides  Catholic and Protestant children from war-torn northeast Ireland with a summer vacation  spent free from strife, in the  New York area. Since 1975,  over 700 children have bene  fitted from this program. While  here, the children enjoy what  we regard as the  normal  delights of childhood. More importantly, they see people of varying backgrounds living together  in peace.  Those who wish to brighten a  child's summer (and enjoy the  outstanding Louis Browne while  doing so) can call 914-477-  3472 or 2781 for tickets ( 9;   7.50 for students and senior  citizens). Additional information  can be obtained by writing  Project Children , Box 933L, Greenwood Lake, NY 10925. Please  make checks payable to  Project Children .   Irish American Labor Coalition  Open Forum  Brodie Mountain Ski Resort  Rte. 7, New Ashford, Massachusetts  Friday, April 16th at 8:00 P.M.  Subject  Peace With Justice In The North Of Ireland  Guest Speakers: Fr. Maurice Burke, S.M.A.  Michael J. Cummings, Paul Murray, Mike Maye  Tor Information Call:  Helen Mitchell (413)243-2994  Brigid M. Tarjick (413)499-4681  IRISH NORTHERN AID  New Schedule  For New York Demonstrations  3:00 - 5:00 p.m. Weekends  5:00 - 6:30 p.m. Daily  Senator Flynn  Sen. John E. Flynn of Yon-  kers, chairman of the Senate  Standing Committee on Cities  and the City of New York, is the  new president ofthe New York  State Irish American Legislators  Society. The eight-term senator  was installed by Senate Majority  Leader Warren Anderson at the  Society's annual St. Patrick's  Day dinner in Albany on  March 15 th.  Other officers are Assemblyman Richard Keane of Buffalo,  vice president; Sen. Howard C.  Nolan Jr. of Albany, treasurer,  and Assemblywoman Florence    nllivan of Brooklyn, secretary.  Sen. Flynn, a member ofthe  society since its inception, has  sponsored legislation providing  courses in Irish cultural studies  at the State University and funding through local governments  for Irish cultural affairs.  He is founder ofthe American-  Irish Association of Westchester,  a member of the Friendly Sons  of St. Patrick of Westchester  and ofthe Ancient Order of Hibernians and was grand marshal  of the 1973 Yonkers St Patrick's Day Parade, second largest  in the state.    Lynn, Massachusetts Unit  Irish Northern Aid  Traditional Irish Music, Singing   Dancing  Sunday, Mar. 28th From 4:00-8:30 PM  A.O.H. Building  105 Federal St. Lynn, Mass.  Special Door Prize, Talent Shoiv at 6:00 PM-  Public Welcome - Coffee, Tea, Irish Soda Bread  Admission  3.00/Under 16's  1.00  For Further Info. Call: 581-3347  0  Guaranteed Irish  Manufacturers - Importers  Wholesalers - Retailers of  Fine Irish Products  3605 Kingsbridge Avenue  (236th St., 1 Block West of Broadway)  Bronx, New York, 10463  Telephone (212)884-8239  
        