00  ON  r-   lt;N  o  Sean Mac Diarmada (Mac Dermott)  By Proinsias 0 Cuilin  Part HI  The IRB decided to arm (a la    Carson's Ulster Volunteers) and    Sean became organizer for the  P lt; Irish Volunteers' resources. After  W the outbreak of World War I,    Sean led the Volunteer efforts  3S to avoid English conscription.  2 After a bitter battle of words,    public meetings, and combatting  ffi ofRedmondite rowdyism, Sean       finally triumphed over the forces  -H of conscription and Home Rule.   lt;L gt;  60  ca  P lt; Anyone who looks for the  details of this phenomenal man's  operation will be stymied, to  say the least Records are scant  because MacDiarmada, a walking memory, carried his notes,  information and name lists in  only one or two small notebooks.  Everything else was retained in  his remarkable memory.  DUBLIN DAYS  Such a meticulous man couldn't  have operated in a vacuum.  When one hears of his exploits  in field operations for Sinn Fein  and the IRB, one wonders: Did  he have a place to work? He had  an office in the building occupied  by Irish Freedom at 12 D'Olier  Street right in the heart of Dublin's newspaper area. This was  the third and last office for the  paper, the two previous being 7  Sinnott Place and 5 Findlater  Place. The moves were for reasons of expansion, plus an increased respectability in all republican circles.  He put in a long day (twelve  to fourteen hours), and broke to  eat only when the work was  finished. He performed all of his  work from these offices. His  friends were necessarily men in  the movement especially Frank  Fahy and Con Collins. He had  quarters in the same building as  the latter. Both of these men  were, like himself, very versatile  and belonged to many organizations. Although he had by this  time relieved Tom Clarke of  many ofthe executive functions  of the IRB, the two remained  steadfast friends.  And yet he remained socially  accessible. He frequented a popular coffee house on Westmoreland Street called Bewleys (Sean  abstained from alcohol) and enjoyed chatting with his female  companions in politics - he became engaged at this  time to Min Ryan. His regular  meals were generally eaten out  at the Redbank Restaurant on  D'Olier Street almost facing  the office across the street  TO REVOLUTION  Sean MacDiarmada was an  intriguing politician, totally secretive as to his intentions, plans  and the business of insurrection.  Not even his closest friends  could  read  him. He projected  a real social grace despite all  this secrecy, constant surveillance, and investigation by the  police and political foes. He  was also extremely strong-willed  and would either bend an organization to his will or start a new  one. This was one reason why  Sean moved from constitutional  Sinn Fein to the secret revolutionary IRB. He was in almost  complete control of the IRB by  1916 and, by manipulation, dominated the group that was to  determine the Easter Rising.  He was always well-groomed.  Mild-mannered, he could also  be stirred to vigorous dissent if  provoked.  GERMAN HELP  The plans for rebellion began  to take shape and form as the  Great War dawned in 1914.  Over in New York, contact had  been made with some famous  German figures of history: Franz  von Papen and Count von Bern-  storff, both emissaries of their  government Ireland would need  arms, and Germany was happy  to comply as long as these activ-  ities would bedevil England.  The shipment of weapons that  the Irish Volunteers received in  1914 in Howth, near Dublin,  wa-Uo be used during the Rising.  Sean MacDiarmada received  the shipment and supervised their  collection. The collection was  briefly interrupted by English  troops but Eamonn Ceannt in  charge of a guard party, opened  fire and engaged the force. These  prepare for a rising. Redmond  and his followers were for conscription.  Sean, by adept politicking and  not a little force, succeeded in  eliminating the Redmondite sympathizers from the IRB. In doing  so, he removed many old friends  and comrades, making a few  enemies in the process. By now,  he was in total control of the  weapons were all sequestered  with the aid of Joseph Plunkett,  Patrick Pearse and the indefatigable Fahy.  THE REDMONDITES  The march of events quickened  with the IRB/Redmondite conflict over the status of the Irish  Volunteers. John Redmond, trying to control the group, was  aided in the attempt by Eoin  MacNeill and Bulmer Hobson,  both founders ofthe Volunteers,  and opponents of an immediate  rising. The militants under Sean  wanted the Irish Volunteers to  continue resistance to conscription for the English army and to  IRB operation through the length  and breadth of Ireland. He controlled all IRB organizations  within and without Dublin.  Money was being received  weekly from America through  Clan Na Gael of New York.  These funds were carried aboard  ship by an IRB agent who delivered them to Sean MacDiarmada  at his Irish Freedom office. He  had intimate knowledge of every  dollar, pound or shilling spent  or received for the movement  At 12 D'Olier Street he was  accessible to the IRB, journalists,  agents  Volunteers or intellectuals. If he was needed at a  public speaking engagement he  was available. He sat on the  newly-created Military Council  of the IRB as political adviser.  Nothing of national value or  significance to the creation of  the Republic eluded this business-like revolutionary. He was  a pure professional.  TOWARDS 1916  The following year and early  1916 were tense periods for the  IRB. Events were moving staccato, one after another with irreversible momentum. There were  three main events now, in the  life of Sean MacDiarmada and  the revolutionaries.  He accompanied one of his  proteges, Liam Mellows, who  sponsored an Easter Week Rising  in Galway in conjunction with  the principal action in Dublin,  to County Galway, where an  anti-conscription rally was held  outdoors. The other scheduled  speakers were fearful ofthe police, who watched and waited for  every word or movement. Sean  became heated. He mounted a  brake and condemned conscription in unremitting terms. It  must in all fairness be stated  that pressure was getting to everyone involved in the coming insurrection. And Sean was above  all human.  He was arrested, remanded,  tried and convicted before a  Dublin military court, then sentenced to six months imprisonment. This was later remitted to  four months, but he was released  after two months. The organization was momentarily stunned,  then fearful Yet his organization  never suffered. It is a tribute to  this man that his organizing  finesse left men to fill the gap  opened by his imprisonment  Diarmuid Lynch of Cork took  over the temporary organizing  chores. He and Sean's other  confidants remained in close  contact with him while he was  imprisoned in Dublin.   To be continued)  Irish Names  O Brollachain  (O'Brallaghan, O'Brollaghan, O'Brollachan, Bradley)  This family's name is an interesting one because of the revealing lesson evident from the  widespread change to an entirely  different version, in addition to  the usual anglicization under  misleading spelling conventions.  In addition to this, the family  differs from others through its  establishment of a flourishing  branch at a distant location in  Ireland.  The ancient genealogies of  the Heremon line in Ireland  trace the family in Tir Eoghain  (Tyrone) from a man named   Brollach , in the line of succession of the O Fahy family,  which was descended from a  brother of an O Neill chief who  lived around 500 AD. The origin  ofthe personal name  Brollach   is not certain. It is true that the  word means breast but this may  not have been significant to the  original bearer of the name, any  more than a present-day   Una   would be expected to have a  sheepish look.  The O Brollachain family was  a branch of the Cineal Eoghain  in Tyrone, but in later days a  number of the family moved to  Cork, where they are now listed  as Bradleys.  The family included many  distinguished persons in the 11 th  and 12th centuries. For example,  Maolbhride O Brollachain was  a famous builder in the latter  10th and early 11th century.  One son, Aodh, was a professor,  and another the bijshop of Cill  Dara(Kildare). Donall O Brollachain, who died in 1202, was  the abbot of Derry, and Flaich-  bheartach 6 Brollachain, who  died in 1175, rebuilt the cathedral at Derry in 1164, getting it  into good condition for the Norman aggressors and plunderers  who were to appear in a few  years.  Although 0 Dubhagalns valuable 14th-century work, in part  on Irish families, did not mention the O Brollachain family,  the Annals ofthe Four Masters  (early 17th century) did, and  Donegal records in 1659 carried  many  O'Brollaghan  listings  for northwest Ulster.  The family suffered heavily  from land theft and oppression  at the hands ofthe English and  English-imported plunderers in  the 17th century, and it was  then and later that the- remarkable change in name occurred.  In ordinary medium-quality  anglicization of the name, the  spelling would become  O'Brot  achan , complete with illogical  apostrophe, illogical because it  signifies no omission of letter or  sound.  Later anglicization made the  usual error of replacing  ach ,  pronounced as a modern German would, with the poorly-  chosen and erroneous  agh ,  giving  O'Brallaghan , in which  the first  a  is an attempt to  represent Irish pronunciation for  the  o  in  Brollachain . The   O'Brallaghan  form is most  common in Deny. Today's American reader will tend to neglect  the  gh  and say  oh brall-uh-  han , a poor imitation of the  true name.  Many of the family did not  retain even this much, however.  Instead, they took or usually  were given the English name   Bradley , a name that English  bailiffs, land courts, and officials  thought was close enough to the  original and would help civilize  the  wilde Irish  sept.  The result is that today probably most of the Bradleys in  Treland are actually heirs to the  name  O Brollachain , and live  in Derry, Tyrone, Donegal and  Cork. English Bradleys are few  in number and easily indentifiable  in Ireland, so confusion in tracing  lineage by the Irish  Bradley   should be insignificant  Let each hope that the name  will be restored, so that  O  Brollachain  will be part of a  nation once again.  
        