i  Sean Sands, brother of the Honorary Grand Marshal, the late Bobby    Sands, being interviewed during the parade.    mTif  N.Y. St. Patrick's Day Parade  (Cont'd from pg. 1)  INA  The Irish Northern Aid contingent stretched some three blocks  long and included a number of  non-Irish participants. Members  bore banners for Irish Northern  Aid,  Smash H-Block  and  England Out of Ireland . An honor  guard of twenty-two members  drawn from the Mid-Manhattan  Unit marched in the shape of an   H . While the ten deceased  hunger strikers were memorialized by ten crosses, each borne  by an INA member wearing a  tri-colored sash inscribed with  one ofthe martyr's names, several New York City policemen  saluted the contingent as it passed  along the way to 86th Street  Media  The contingent drew a great  deal of media coverage. Both  Sean Sands and Irish Northern  Aid Trustee Michael Flannery  were interviewed on New York  television and the parade contingent was shown on all television  networks. Such coverage brought  the strong nationalist current  beyond the parade itself into  millions of homes.  Counties  Meanwhile, the renewed Irish  nationalism was evident in other  groups as well. Patrick Mullan,  honorary Grand Marshal from  Brooklyn and a noted member  of the Ancient Order of Hibernians, United Brooklyn Irish,  and Irish Northern Aid, was  named an Aide to the Grand  Marshal. Mr. Mullan has been  accused of attempting to obtain  arms to assist the Irish Republican Army in its struggle to end  British rule in the north of Ireland.  A number of County Societies  bore  England Out of Ireland   banners and the badges and  insignia worn by individual  marchers and observers displayed  the renewed feelings of Irish  patriotism still flowing from the  hunger strike.  (A bove) Members ofthe Noraid Honor Guard and'  Michael Flannery (below) being interviewed by  CBS's Vic Miles.   Maetsja  - -    Sunnyside Unit - INA  Presents   Rock Against Thatcher   'Tank Against Taisley   Sunday, March 28th  9pm to 1 am  HOURS OF GLORY  At  The Fields  48th Ave.   47th St., Woodside, Queens  Music By: Street Urchins, The Rapid, The Perssuaders  //// Drinks 57,00 ...Alt Night  Donation  5.00  An Evening Not To Be Missed'  For Info. Call: (212)461-9685/(212)779-6917  Tyrone Football Club  Annual Dinner Dance  And Presentation of 1980-'81 Medals  (Senior Football Championship Medals)  At The  Astorian Manor  25-22 Astoria Boulevard, Astoria, New York  On Friday Evening, April 2, 1982  Cocktail Hour 8-9 Dinner-Dancing 9-1  Guest of Honor...Patrick J. Clarke  Music By: John Morrison   His Band  Donation:  27.50 EACH  Peter Rafferty. Journal Chairman, Jim Gourley. Co-Chairman  ..Mich   i Setemey. General Chairman  Make checks payable and mail to: Mike Delaney. 3054 Kingsbridge Ave. Bronx, NY  10463  Joe 'Banjo' Burke's  Double Recording of Patriotic/Sporting Songs  Now available in 80-minute cassettes at local Irish  stores and pubs. OR BY MAIL for a limited time  only at  10.00 each. Mail this form with check or  money order to:  Silver Spear Recordings  3081 Villa Avenue  Bronx, New York 10468  Send in i order to:  N.-.nv.  Add res    
        