Twenty-Five Cents   12.00 per year  people  U.S.P.S. 070-77t    3  rt   ma of  mm mmueaiusM  M AMSMCA  Volume XI  Number 12  March 27, 1982      ILIIMiEl  ENDS VISIT  The whirlwind American tour won by newly elected Free State head Charles  Haughey along with the election from Garret FitzGerald concluded last week  amidst mixed reviews.  New York  The tour began in New York  with a visit to the Economic  Club, comprising prestigious corporate executives and businessmen. Here Haughey's appeal  was for American investment  into the Free State economy.  Haughey asserted that the economy was on sound basis and  nearing the end of recession.  However, as Haughey spoke,  the Punt or Irish Free State  pound, fell under the o;  and fifty cent mark. Haughey  was questioned about the north  and here in a statement which  dramatically contrasted with his  public utterances during his prior  term in office, asserted that  the  principal obstacle in the north  was the British guarantee to  Loyalists... We will have no progress until that is removed.   Haughey also announced that  he believed that the Free State  would soon become an exporter  of oil After the address, Haughey  visited St. Agnes Church on  43rd St., the site of the apartment building where Haughey's  predecessor, Eamon de Valera,  was baptized.  Washington  The newly re-elected Free  State head then journeyed to  Washington, DC. He attended  a White House luncheon with  several Congressmen, Secretary  Charles   Haughey  of State Alexander Haig, and  celebrities, including Maureen  O'Hara. Haughey was called  upon to make an exchange of  toasts. Instead, he spoke at length,  stating:  There is much to be  done. And the first thing is that  Britain be encouraged to seek  more positively and more actively a change in attitude and outlook which would pave the way  for unity and so enable her final  withdrawal from Ireland to take  place with honor and dignity.   Reagan  President Reagan later asserted  that the United States would  not become involved in influencing Vritish policy in Ireland.  This reaction was praised both  by Margaret Thatcher and Ian  Paisley's deputy Peter Robinson. Haughey's position varied  dramatically from his rhetoric  during his first administration,  wherein his visits to America  were marked by attacks upon  Irish-American opposition to  British rule. The remarks generated for Haughey widespread  publicity in Ireland, where Haughey holds a tenuous majority that  may bring a new election within  the year and in which Haughey  is expected to campaign by assuming a mantle of Irish nationalism  while maintaining collaboration  with the British.  A member of the Ulster Defense Association  convicted for the assassination in Larne in 1980 of  Irish Independence Party co-founder, Protestant  John Turnly, claimed in a Belfast court at the  conclusion ofthe trial that he had been working for  the British Army's SAS squad.  Twenty-seven year old Ro-   they were all members of the  bert McConnell named uio two  SAS soldiers whom he claimed  supplied him with information  and with weapons for the killing  and who had discussions with  him on Miriam Daly, Bernadette McAliskey and John Turnly, all of whom were shot by the  UDA in 1980 and 1981 in  attacks claimed under the cover-  name, the Ulster Freedom Fighters. In his statement McConnell  said that  in or around the month  of April 1980,1 was working as  a fish salesman in the Larne  area. I was stopped one day  near Cushendall by a van containing a number of men. I became satisfied subsequently that  SAS and I had dealings with  them on that and a number of  subsequent occasions through  their leaders who were Sergeant  Tom Aiken and Corporal Mc-  Gow.   He said that at their behest he  placed a listening device in a  bar in Cushendall, County Antrim, in which Sinn Fein vice-  president Gerry Adams was allegedly attending a meeting. He  continued:  During a series of  subsequent meetings with them  (the SAS) they discussed with  me Republican leaders and in  particular Turnly, Miriam Daly  and Bernadette McAliskey...  Continued on pg. 13  The two hundred and twentieth St Patrick's Day  Parade in New York, despite a chilling rain, attracted  more than one hundred and ninety bands and tens of  thousands of marchers. A dramatic escalation of  Irish patriotism in this year's parade was a highlight  of the day, led by an Irish Northern Aid contingent  nearly one thousand strong. This contingent included  Sean Sands, whose deceased brother Bobby Sands,  MP,  was  unanimously  named  Honorary Grand  Marshal by the Parade Committee.  (See story page 10)  
        