August 9 -August 15, 2003  The Irish People  Page 15  Irish Lesson 34  PRONUNCIATION REVIEW  The group  ch  in Irish may still be  difficult for you to pronounce. If it is next  to a broad vowel,  a, o, u , it receives the  aspirated sound of broad  c . This sound is  like that in the German word  ach .  Pronounce it by lowering the raised back  of the tongue somewhat while you pronounce a broad  c , which is like the (k) in   coat  or  lock .  Try the English word  lock  and then  aspirate the (k) sound. This is similar to  the Irish word  lach  (law*k*). Then say:  loch (lohk*), duch (dook*), croch  (krohk*), gach (gahk*), sach (saw*k*).  If the broad  ch  starts a word, it is  still pronounced (k*) and not (h) in most  cases. Try: cota (KOH-tuh), chota (K*OH-  tuh), chail (k*aw*l), chaill (k*eyel),  chuaigh (K*00-ig).  We use the symbok (k*) for the pronunciation of this sound.  If the  ch  is nest to  e, i , again lower  the tongue somewhat while you pronounce  the slender  c , which is like the (k) sound  in the English  kill . The result will be a  sound like  y  in English  you , but with a  slight (h) sound before it. Try: chill (hyil),  cheannaigh (HYAN-ee), cheim (hyay*m).  Inside or at the end of a word, the sound  can be much like an (h), as in: fiche (FI-  he), crich (kree). The last word is pronounced differently from  cri  (kree) at its  end, but our simplified pronunciation  guide does not take this into account.  Instead, you must watch for this  --ch   ending yourself.  You may have seen anglicized place  names and family names with a  gh  group  in them, such as  Lough Erne  or   O'Loughlin . This  gh  was mistakenly  adopted in the 19th century as the equivalent of the broad  ch  in Irish. The non-  Irish speaker tends to pronounce  lough   as (loh) or (lawk), although it should be  pronounced (lohk*), as if it were spelled  properly:  loch , lake.  Lochlainn  means  Scandinavia (or Denmark), and a   Lochlannach  is a Scandinavian.  VOCABULARY  Masculine Nouns  hata (HAHT-uh), hat  briste (BREESH-te), trousers  ceann (kyoun), head  madra (MAH-druh) dog  doras (DUH-ruhs) door  halla (HAHL-uh), hall  Feminine Nouns  cuid, an chuid (kwid, un k*wid), part  fearthainn, an fhearthainn (FAR-in, un  AR-in), rain  scachtain, an tseachtain (SHAHKT-  in, un TYAHK*T-in), week  Verbs  bris, ag briseadh (brish, uh BRISH-  uh), break  cas, ag casadh (kahs, uh KAHS-uh),  turn  fill, ag filleadh (fil, uh FIL-uh), return  stop, ag stopadh (stohp, uh STOHP-  uh), stop  tosaigh, ag tosu(TUH-see, uh TUH-  soo), begin  thosaiomar (huh-SEE-uh-muhr), we  began  DRILL  1. Review the form  Ceardeseo?  (kay*rd ay* shuh) Is leabhare.   An leabhar more? Nihea, ach leabhar beag.   Go through this with the following  groups:  bord, bord gorm (GUH-ruhm), bord  dearg (DYAR-ruhg)  hata, hata ban, hata dubh  halla, halla gcal, halla dorcha  doras, doras dunta, doras oscailte  briste, briste nua, seanbhriste  madra, madra mor, madra beag  2. We will now work with the Lcsson-  20 vocabulary for a drill. Verbal adjectives  for bain, ith, cnag, andol are:  bainte, ite, cnagtha,61ta   Tascag ithc an arain  is  He is eating  the bread .  Change this to  He ate the bread  and  to  He has eaten the bread .  Before you look at the Key below, do  the same with:  si, ag ithe an bricfeasta  me, ag ithe mo loin  sinn, ag ithe feola  siad, agol bainne  tii, agol tae  me. agol uisce  se, agol chaife  siad, agol beorach  Sean, ag ithe arain  Key: D'ith sean t-aran, taan t-aran ite  aige. D'ith sian bricfeasta; ta... aici. D'ith  memo Ion; ta... again. D'itheamar feoil;  ta... againn. D'61 siad bainne; tabainne olta  acu. D'61 tiitae; ta... agat. D'61 meuisce;  ta... again. D'61 sea chaife; ta.. aige. D'61  siad beoir; ta... acu. D'ith Sean an t-aran;  ta...aige.  CONVERSATION  Mairin (maw*-REEN): Candeachaigh  hiinne? Chonaic mehiag dul sios an bothar  go luath. Where did you go yesterday? 1  saw you going down the road early.  Pol (pohl): Chuala mego raibheadach  saor ag na siopaisa chathair. Isteach liom  ar an traein, ach nifhaea merud ar bith arbh  fhiudom a cheannach. Niraibh moran  daoine aim, ach oiread. I heard that clothes  were cheap at the stores in the city. In 1  went on the train, but I didn't sec anything  worth buying. There weren't many people  there cither.  Mairin: Nar chuala mego bhfuil na  praghsamia (PREYE-suh-nuh) ag dul sios  anois? Didn't I hear that the prices are  going down now?  Pol: Nior chuala mee, agus nifhaea  mcc, ach oiread. Cheannaigh melcine agus  briste, agus ansin thainig meabhaile faoi  dhcireadh (YER-uh). I didn't hear it, and I  didn't see it either. I bought a shirt and  trousers, and then I came home finally.  Mairin: Nach mor an truae, anois?  Isn't it a pity, now?  Kelley  continued from page 11  this,  said Kelly this week,  I'm dumbfounded, to be honest. The first I knew  about this was when a reporter contacted me. It's a bit of a shock. The PSNI  did not even have the courtesy to let  anyone know this was happening.    I would prefer an independent  probe headed by a person from outside  the country. As a family we have no  faith in the RUC/PSNI to find and  charge those responsible. It was not  investigated properly when it should  have been nearly thirty years ago.   The PSNI have brought in a detec  tive, Andrew Hunter, from Tyneside in  England to conduct the latest investigation, but there are concerns that the  detectives working with him could be  the same ones originally responsible  for the case.  Sinn Fein West Tyrone MP Pat  Doherty says both Patsy Kelly's family  and local people remain convinced that  members of the UDR were behind the  killing.   There have been years of cover-  up and obstruction by the RUC,  says  Doherty,  In effect, the RUC assisted  Patsy Kelly's killers to escape justice.  Many of those officers remain in place  and the PSNI are refusing to confirm  that these individuals will not be  involved in any reinvestigation. There  is a real fear that this latest move is  nothing more than a further stalling  exercise and has indeed been done  without consultation with the Kelly  family.   Peter Kelly agrees with Doherty's  assessment.   I've always thought there was collusion,  he says.  There was a great  security presence in the area at the  time and something like that could not  have happened without their knowledge.   Meanwhile, the family's solicitor,  Pat Fahy, speaking to An Phoblacht,  has also expressed his unease over the  new investigation.   We ask Andrew Hunter to supply  the names of the PSNI members who  are in the investigating team so that we  could check that they were not  involved in the original investigation  but he refused to do so.   Fahy explained that Hunter said in  a letter that the PSNI members were  worried about their details being given  out after the alleged intelligence gathering operation in the RVH in Belfast.   All wc want are the names and we  said that in a letter sent to Hunter on 16  July. So far, he has not replied,  said  Fahy.  
        