Paee 10  The Irish People  August 9 -August 15, 2003  Protecting human rights or the state?  In the first of a two-part series on the embattled Six-County Human  Rights Commission, UNA GILLESPIE explains why nationalists are  unimpressed by the Commission's performance to date and outlines the  changes necessary to secure the implementation of a satisfactory human  rights agenda.  What confidence can nationalists have  left in the Human Rights Commission  given the revelations of the last few  months? This month, wc have seen the resignation of a fourth Commissioner, Patrick  Yu, and the publication of a damning report  by the British Joint Parliamentary  Committee on Human Rights and the revelation of the breaches of the Commission's  independence by the then RUC and the role  of the Chief Commissioner in that debacle.  These events came after the previous  resignations in September 2002 of two  respected Commissioners, Inez  McConnack and Professor Christine Bell,  and the resignation the previous year of  Angela I legarty.  They also came following controversy  over the attitude of Chief Commissioner  Bricc Dickson towards the parents and children of the Holy Cross primary school.  Professor Dickson visited the Ardoyne road  on a morning when the abusive protest was  ncaring its suspension, met with the protestors from Glenbryn, defended their right to  protest and ignored the besieged children  and their parents. His attitude then lias illuminated  his behavior regarding the Holy  Cross protest since.  The latest revelations come after the  NIO rejected the majority of the 25 recommendations from the February 2001  Review of the Commission's powers. The  major issue that review and a subsequent  independent review undertaken by Peter  Hosking from the United Nations emphasized was that the Commission was restricted by the lack of power  a  to compel witnesses and documents  b  to take cases in it  own name and  c  to have unimpeded  access to certain institutions.  A long list of issues and events has  added urgency to the need to review the  entire role and remit if the Commission and  to ensure speedy interventions to rebuild  damaged confidence and ensure the vigorous defense and protection of human rights  of all people.  Nationalists viewed the Human Rights  Commission established under section 68  of the Nl Act 1998 as a fundamental element of the Good Friday Agreement. The  report from the British government's Joint  Committee on Human Rights, however, has  brought into focus and into the public arena  the fissures that have been appearing in the  Inez McCormack  Human Rights Commission for a long time.  The report examined the work of the  Commission under a number of headings:  - Independence and impartiality  - The appointments process  - Funding and resources  - Powers and functions  - Effectiveness.  The report by and  large reflects the  concerns of a number of organizations that  gave evidence to the committee during its  deliberations. Must damning was probably  the evidence given by Christine Bell and  Inez Me Cormack. The list of issues that  they outlined is as follows:  - The government's lack of commitment to ensuring that the Commission lives  up to the vision set out in the Agreement of  a Commission:  It has been our experience  that paper commitments to human rights  which are not implemented, also stand to  undermine both the Agreement and human  rights protection generally.   - The failure of the Commission to  establish a clear focus and strategic direction.  - The Commission was routinely  ignored by government departments and  other public bodies.  - The lack of powers for the  Commission for many of its core functions  and a lack of investigative powers.  - The entire process of the consultation  on and formulation of a draft Bill of Rights  for the North as outlined in the Good  Friday Agreement. The Commission from  the outset was deeply divided over the  approach to be taken to a Bill of Rights and  there was a lack of coordination over this  project internally.  - The fact that core funding is provided  by the NIO and additional finance has to be  continued on page 12  O'Dwyer   Bernstein, LLP  Brian O'Dwyer  Gary Silvennan  Christopher Downcs  Victor Greco  Cody McCone  Thomas J. Hughes, Jr.  Gary P. Rothman  Janine I lobert  Steven C. Kassarda  Attorneys-at-Law  Concentrating in:  Construction Accidents  Scaffolding Accidents  Automobile Accidents  Personal Injury  Medical Malpratice  Wills and Estates  No Charge for Consultations  Serving the Irish American  Community for over 75 years  52 Duane Street - New York - NY, 10007  Tel: (212) 571-7100   Fax: (212) 571-7124  Nassau Office by Appointment Only  Tel: (212) 248-4224  Frank Durkan  Anne M. Paxton  Steve A. Aripotch  J.P. Delaney  David H. Schultz  Michael Carroll  Kathleen M. Kilduff  Jana Sperry  Tom Ryan  US government to  fund PSNI training  The US House of Representatives has voted in favor  of government funding to train both the PSNI and the  Gardai.  It is the first time either of the two houses of  Congress has voted to allocate such funds and, once  passed into law, the measure will authorize the US government aid agency USAID to fund the training of both forces  and encourage inter-force co-operation.  In the past, Congress had resisted funding the RUC  and PSNI due to human rights concerns, but the amendment, which was introduced by New York Congressman  Joe Crowley this past week, was not debated and was  passed without controversy.  The Bill will allow USAID to provide  computer-  based, human rights and other professional training  to the  PSNI and the Gardai  for the purposes of fostering greater  co-operation and communication  between the two forces.  Sinn Fein spokesperson on policing, Gerry Kelly,  expressing his disappointment at the decision, said acceptable policing is still a work in progress.   While this is a well meaning attempt to advance the  goal of an acceptable policing service, the reality on the  ground is that the benchmark has not yet been achieved,  because the British government choose to dilute the Patten  proposals,  says Kelly.  In 1999, the US halted the funding of FBI training for  RUC officers in the wake of controversy surrounding the  killings of lawyers Pat Finucane and Rosemary Nelson.  The ban was lifted in 2002 but it was announced that any  officers going to train in the US would be vetted to ensure  they had no link to the Finucane case.  
        