c  B   3.  a,  3  CO  oo  00  Os  3  w  UJ  Ph  o  w  Ph  PC  00  VO  Oh  WOMEN OF 1916  UNWELCOME  PATRIOTS  Z gt;y Mary Holt Moore  The commandants of the various outposts of the Easter Rising reacted in different ways to  the urgings of the women to join  the insurgent forces. Many shared  the traditional Catholic view that  the women were only to serve in  an auxiliary capacity, viz., first  aid stations and cooking. The  women of Cumann na mBan had  spent the week prior to Easter  Sunday making up endless medical kits as a preparation for a  route march on Easter Sunday.  Many suspected that the march  would signal the beginning of a  rebellion.  When Eoin MacNeill ordered  the cancellation of all demonstrations and parades because  of the failed delivery of arms at  Tralee, everything was thrown  into confusion. The leadership  decided to overrule Mac Neill  and sent couriers throughout the  countryside. However, they did  not notify the women. Maire nic  Shiubhlaigh went to the Ceannt  home, where Aine Ceannt and  her sister, Lilly O'Brennan (both  executive members of Cumann  na mBan), told Maire to ignore  the countermanding order and  to prepare to meet them the next  day.  It was thanks to the heroic  work of the women couriers that  the Rising was saved from utter  confusion. Nora Connolly was  the first to become a courier.  She and Eilis ni Chorra brought  word of the chaotic state of affairs  to the Military Council in Dublin.  The women were given a copy  of the Proclamation to memorize  and sent back to the North  to inform all that the Rising had  begun and all preparations were  to continue as planned. Maire  Perolz was sent to Cork to reach  Tomas MacCurtain, Eily  O'Hanrahan went to Ennis-  corthy, Nancy Wyse Power to  Barris, and others to Tralee,  Waterford and Dundalk. Everything was in confusion.  Maire nic Shiubhlaigh and six  women went to Jacob's Biscuit  Factory when she convinced  Thomas MacDonagh of the essential role of women; Eilis ni  Riain reported to Palmerston  Place.  Courts refused to go home. Pearse,  Connolly, and Clarke, on hearing of the women's frustration,  sent out word to all units and the  women were installed at all  major outposts.  THE ONLY COMMANDANT TO STEADFASTLY  REFUSE THE WOMEN WAS  EAMON deVALERA IN  BOLAND'S MILL.  Helena Moloney and the  women of the Citizens' Army Ambulance Corps joined a contingent, ten men and nine women, and  launched an attack on Dublin  Castle. Helena was a good friend  of Sean Connolly. Dr. Kathleen  Lynn, Medical Officer, attended the dying Sean Connolly.  As the ranking officer, she surrendered the tiny garrison.  Countess de Markievicz and  fifteen women were at Stephen's  Green.  Madeline ffrench-Mullen supervised the first-aid post under  Michael Mallin.  Margaret Skinnider served as  sniper. She was a member of the  Glasgow Cumann na mBan and  was a crack shot at the Glasgow  Rifle Club. She was badly wounded while taking part in an attack  on a house behind the Russell  Hotel on the Green.  Margaretta Keogh was killed  in the South Dublin Union while  attempting to help a wounded  Volunteer.  Louise Gavan Duffy, G.P.O.,  was delegated to take the wounded to Jervis Street Hospital.  Twenty-six women were with  Eamon Ceannt's forces in the  Marrowbone Lane Distillery.  Con Colbert, one of the Fianna  Boys, was left in charge while  Ceannt was at the South Dublin  Unioa Rose McNamara, Officer-  in-Charge of the Cumann na  mBan, led the women to surrender. They were taken to Richmond Barracks and then to  Kilmainham jail.  Thirty-four women went originally to the GPO. Twenty were  persuaded to leave. Eleven helped  to evacuate the wounded. Three  women stayed behind Winifred  Carney, James Connolly's secretary, Elizabeth O'Farrell, who  carried the white flag of surrender, and Julia Grennan.  Irish Citizen Army Women  imprisoned: Brigid Foley and  Marie Perolz, released in June;  Nell Ryan in the autumn; Winifred  Carney and Helena Moloney,  Christmas, 1916. Countess  Marklievicz was courtmar-  tialled, condemned to death and  sent to Aylesbury.  Vol Josephine O'Bwyer in uniform  A MOTHER SPEAKS  Dear Mary, that didst see thy first-born Son  Go forth to die amid the scorn of men  For whom He died,  Receive my first-born son into thy arms,  Who also hath gone out to die far men,  And keep him by thee till I come to him.  Dear Mary, I have shared thy sdrrow,  And soon shall share thy joy.  P. H. PEARSE  tann na mBan and the Irish Citizen Army who took part in the Faster Rising  NURSE  MARGARET KEOUGH  When the British opened fire  on the Volunteers in the South  Dublin Union, many of the convalescing patients were strolling  in the grounds. The nurse in  charge, Nurse Margaret Keogh,  became anxious for their safety.  She rushed down the stairs to  the exit of Building  6 and, on  opening the door, was fired on  by two British soldiers and fell  mortally wounded. This action  was uncalled for because they  ; could see her uniform.  Commandant Eamonn Ceannt  said that Nurse Keogh ws the  first martyr and asked the  Volunters to remember so. She  was buried in the hospital grounds,  but later her remains were transferred for reburial in Ballinab-  rannagh, Co. Carlow.  CUMANN NA MBAN  IRISH REPUBLICAN PRISONERS  1916  3  6  4 gt;   fr  3  00  OO  00  OS  3      til  til  Ph  O  til  Ph  a:  C/3  I     CO  oo  Barrett, Kitty  Brady, Bridget  Brown, Kate  Brown, Martha  Byrne, Eileen  Byrne, Katie  Byrne, Mary  Carron, May  Cooney, Annie  Cooney, Eileen  Cooney, Lily  Cosgrave, Marcella  Davis, Bridget  Ennis, Elen  Fleming, Kathleen  Gahan, May  Goff, Bridget  Grennan, Julia   Hackett, Roseanne  Hegarty, Bridget  Humphreys, Ellen  Humphreys, Sheila  Joyce, Maggie  Kelly, Kitty  Kelly, Josephine  Kelly, Martha  Kennedy, Margaret  Kenny, Bridy  Liston, Catherine  Liston, Mary  Lyons, Bridget  Lynch, Bessie  Maher, Kathleen  Markham, Pauline  Martin, Kate  McCauley, Julia  McGowan, Josephine  McLaughlin, Maggie  McNamara, Rose  McNamee, Agnes  Mead, Florence  Mitchell Caroline  Mullally, Rose  Muhall, Lizzie  Murphy, Kathleen  Murtagh, Bridget  Norgrove, Annie  Norgrove, Edely  O'Brennan, Lily  O'Daly, Nora  O'Flaherty, Margaret  O'Hanlan, Sheila  OKeeffe, Emily  OKeeffe, Josephine  O'Moore, May  O'Sullivan, Louisa  Partridge, Mary  Quigley, Maria  Quigley, Priscilla  Retz, Barbara  Seery, Kathleen  Shanahan, Jane  Spicer, Josephine  Sullivan, Mary  Treston, Catherine  Source: Sinn Fein Rebellion Handbook   Easter 1916,  compiled by the Weekly Irish Times, Dublin, 1917,  286 pp.   
        