rag  All  U  V * lib Vd/ ) y/v Vk7 is. The nominations for the Carroll Al  As 1974 fades into history many  will agree that this year was not a  good year for the New York Gaelic  Athletic Association. There were  some bright spots during the year and  these include the successful minor  board and the tours from Ireland,  both at club and county level. The  numbers attending our games continue to fall. Here the officers and clubs  must take the responsibility. On  many, many occasions games started  an hour behind the scheduled time  and there were plenty of Sundays  when it was eight o'clock when I left  the Park after the last game. However,  there was a brief effort made to  correct the late starting but without  the cooperation of the clubs and the  enforcing of the rules all the effort  was wasted.  At the annual convention a new  president was elected. Terry  Connaughton beat Mike Cassidy by 4  votes. There was a very successful  installation of officers and this was  followed by one of the biggest  banquets ever. The signs were very  encouraging indeed. We saw a rules  committee appointed and these  dedicated men spent many hours  deliberating and one of the most  important and far reaching rules they  proposed and passed was that teams  be allowed only three players from  Ireland for any one game and the  names were to be furnished 10 days  in advance of the game. To my  disappointment and to many others  no effort was made to encourage  clubs to consolidate or combine to  form stronger teams and lease better  games and more competitive spirit.  This consolidation or combining or  by whatever name you wish to give it  will have to be given priority action  urgently before clubs are allowed to  affiliate and nomination of officers  take place for 1975. The number of  one sided games witnessed this year  has to be reduced if we are to  continue to attract the paying public  to the Park.  FINALS  There were five competitions  completed, three in hurling and two  in football and the final of the 1973  Senior football championship has  been reached. Both the 1973 junior  championships were completed and  new and worthy champions emerged  in both. It proved a double for Kerry.  First we saw the Kingdom hurlers  play Waterford into the ground in a  one sided final. Just a few weeks ago  the Kerry junior footballers assisted  by players from Ireland beat arch  rivals Limerick in a quiet, sporting  final. Sligo made history when they  recorded their first win of the senior  football championship and victory  was all the sweeter as it was Kerry  they beat in the final.  In the final and the semi-final of  the competition we saw good, open  exhibitions of football. In the decider  both contestants imported heavily  from Ireland.  The senior hurling division must be  commended fo'r their progressive  thinking, first the 1973 senior final  was decided after much uncertainty.  Galway defeated a disappointing  Offaly team in the final. Early in  October Galway were dethroned as  champions by a star-studded  Tipperary fifteen. In this final Galway  had to answer to the Tipperary men  and this victory broke a lean spell for  the winners. So, for the first time in  many years a New York  Championship was decided within the  year. From this division came the first  moves to combine clubs. It was  decided that Wexford and Kilkenny,  combine along with Cork and  Limerick for a special hurling league.  The Cork-Limerick merger fell  through, but the Wexford-Kilkenny  merger seem, at the very least an  improvement and has all the signs of  being a success. That merger plan was  only on a trial basis and only for that  special competition. Any  consolidation of clubs might be made  initially on a trial basis for say 12  months or the life of a particular  competition.: With a little good will  on all sides I think consolidation can  be a success and it would be a great  show of sportsmanship and concern  for the survival of our National  Pastimes if the first moves came from  the clubs. But, if force has to be used  then, in the best interest of the  association coercion is the only  answer.  I have no doubt we will be hearing  much on this particular subject for  the next couple of months. The final  of the 1973 senior football  championship has been reached and  the contestants will be Donegal and  Kerry. Donegal are seeking their first  New York title.  TOURS  This year there were successful  tours made by individual clubs and by  the All-Ireland Champions Kilkenny  and the Ulster football Champions,  Donegal. At club level we saw  Kilcummin, St. Patrick's and Na  haghasaigh in hurling Roscrea and  Ballinsloe. For any clubs thinking of  making the trip to New York, they  should travel early in the Year. The  tour of the All-Ireland Champions  was a rushed decision, so fast that  neither the Kilkenny or Limerick  players were aware of the impending  trip until after the final. Despite the  short notice however, the tour was a  success and New York put up a  creditable showing. There was more  organization and publicity for the  Donegal tour but for some strange  reason they never attracted the  expected full house. As it turned out  Donegal disappointed when they  failed to beat a local New York  fifteen. The New Yorkers gave a good  display and played far better than  anybody expected. For the second  game of the tour Donegal played a  minor board selection and they won  easily.  History has been written and no  doubt it will be long remembered that  it was the first occasion that a team  of all American-born players took the  field against a team from Ireland.  Again, I am sure we will be seeing  much more of these fine Americans  playing Gaelic football. On April  20th, 1975 we will have another  opportunity of seeing Kilkenny  playing much tougher opposition-the  Carroll All-Star Selection at Gaelic  Park.  MINOR FOOTBALL  As time goes the minor football ,  movement is going to play a more  important part in the life of New  York G.A.A. Right now, it is difficult  to put a date on it but before very  long they will have to shoulder the  full responsibility of carrying on the  games of the Gael in New York. I will  not dwell too long on the minors as I  hope to do a special article or two  later on this very important facet of  the organisation. There are a few  improvements I would like to see in  the minor division and as the officers  are very progressive I am sure they  will act accordingly.  ANNIVERSARY  This year we celebrated the 60th  anniversary of the Gaelic Athletic  Association in New York and what a  tame event it was. The timing was  wrong; it should not have been  overshadowed by the Kilkenny tour  and should have been marked by a  special day in which only local  players were involved. There is no  telling who or what shape the  organisation will be in 10 years time  when the Gaelic Athletic Association  in Ireland will celebrate its  centenuary.  Australian Rules  Team For Dublin  It is now almost definite that the  two Australian football teams touring  Europe and the U.S. will play in  Croke Park, Dublin on March 8th,  1975. On the following day an  Australian Rules team will play an  Gaelic football team under comprised  rules. This visit may open up the  prospect of Irish team going to  Australia again-.'  The nominations for the Carroll All-  Star football team have been  announced. In all 110 players are listed  for the various positions. Many of the  Dublin players were not considered.  The final selection will be announced  next week and the team will play  against a combined Universities team  on December 8th. In fact this is the  first time that the All-Stars will play together as a team.  In a strange turn of events the star  Dublin goalkeeper has strong con-  tension for the  keeper  spot despite  his brilliant goalkeeper this year. Cen-  terfield is most hotly contested positions with sixteen nominations and  right full-back the least with only four  nominations.  GOALKEEPER  Paddy   Cullen   (Dublin),   Martin  Furlong     (Offaly),     Ronan     Giles  (Meath), Gay Mitchell (Galway), Billy  Morgan (Cork), John Somers (Derry).  RIGHT FULL BACK  Harry Keegan (Roscommon),  Donal Monaghan (Donegal), Brian  Murphy   (Cork),   Donie   O'Sullivan  (Kerry).  FULL BACK  Jack Cosgrave (Galway), Sean  Doherty (Dublin), Humphrey  Kelleher (Cork), Pat Lindsay  (Roscommon), Kan McCartan (Down),  Pauric McShea (Donegal), Seamus  Reilly (Mayo), Mick Ryan (Offaly),  Leslie Tool (Louth).  LEFT FULL BACK  Aiden Caffrey (Sligo), Mick  Carolan (Kildare), Brendan Col-  leran (Galway), Derry Crowley  (Kerry),   Andy   Curran   (Donegal),  Denis Dalton (Kildare), Donal Hunt  (Cork), Robbie Kelleher (Dublin),  Gerry Manion (Roscommon), Brian  Murphy (Cork).  RIGHT HALF BACK  Ger Feeney (Mayo), Eugene  Mulligan (Offaly), Brian McEniff  (Donegal), Enda McGowan (Cavan),  Liam O'Neill (Galway), Kevin Ger  O'Sullivan (Cork), Ger Power (Kerry),  Paddy Reilly (Dublin), Pat Traynor  (Meath).  CENTRE HALF BACK  Anthony Gallagher (Donegal),  Tommy Joe Gilmore (Galway),  Paudie Lynch (Kerry), Sean  Mulvihill (Longford), Barnes Murphy  (Sligo), J. P. O'Keane (Antrim),  Eamon Tavey (Monaghan).  LEFT HALF BACK  Con Hartnett (Cork), Johnny  Hughes, (Galway), Mick Higgins  (Westport-Mayo),   Johnny   Kerrane  (Roscommon), Ger O'Keefe (Kerry),  Martin Slevin (Down), George Wilson (Dublin).  CENTRE FIELD  Declan Barron (Cork, Martin Carney (Donegal), Mick Carty (Wexford),  Denis Coughlan (Cork), Jimmy Duggan     (Galway),     Dermot     Earley  (Roscommon), Mick Freyne (Roscom-  Football  i Announced  mon), Willie Joyce (Galway), Paudie  Lynch (Kerry), Pat Mangan (Kildare),  Bobby Miller (Laois), Peter  McGinnity (Fermanagh), John  O'Keefe (Kerry), Ken Rennicks  (Meath), Steve Rooney (Dublin), Peter  Rooney (Down).  RIGHT HALF FORWARD  Bobbie Doyle (Dublin), Michael  Laffey (Sligo), Brendan Lynch (Kerry),  Colm McAlarney (Down), Frank  McGuigan (Tyrone), Tom Naugh-  ton (Galway), Tom O'Malley (ayo).  CENTER HALF FORWARD  Declan Barron (Cork), Tommy  Carew Kildare), Mickey Cunningham (Down), Jimmy Duggan (Galway), Dermot Earley (Roscommon),  Michael Kearins (Sligo), Mickey  O'Sullivan (Kerry), Liam Sammon  (Galway).  LEFT HALF FORWARD  Jarleth Burke (Galway), Noilly  Gallagher (Donegal), David Hickey  (Dublin), Michael Kearins (Sligo),  Colm McAlarney (Down), Dave  McCarthy (Cork), Tony McTeague  (Offaly), Gerry O'Loughlin (Derry),  Damien Reid (Louth), Benny Wilkinson (Sligo).  RIGHT FULL FORWARD  John Cooney (Offaly), Johnny  Egan (Kerry), Seamie Granaghan  (Donegal), Jimmy Barry (Cork), Anton  O'Toole (Dublin), Peter Rooney  (Down).  FULL FORWARD  Seamus Bonner (Donegal), Ray  Cummins (Cork), Jimmy Keaveney  (Dublin), Sean O'Neill (Down), Liam  Sammon (Galway).  LEFT FULL FORWARD  Jimmy Barrett (Cork), Nellly  Gallagher (Donegal), Michael  Keating (Tipperary), Anton O'Toole  (Dublin), Mike Sheehy (Kerry), John  Tobin (Galway).  Top Marksmen  FO OTBALL-D. Earley  (Roscommon) 10-89 (119), M.  Kearins (Sligo) 4-87 (99), J. Tobin  (Galway) 4-51 (63), F. O'Loane  (Derry) 4-48 (60), J. Donnelly  (Kildare) 1-56 (59), M. Sheehy  (Kerry) 6-37 (55), J. Keaveney  (Dublin) 2-47 (53), S. Bonner  (Donegal) 11-15 (48), T. O'Malley  (Mayo) 2-41 (47), P. Dunny (Kildare)  7-25 (46).  HURLING-E. Keher (Kilkenny)  12-83 (119), F. Loughnand  (Tipperary) 12-64 (103), R. Bennis  (Limerick) 7-67 (88), J. Walsh  (Kildare) 8-55 (79), P. Quigley  (Dublin) 3-55 (64), P. O'Grady  (Waterford) 3-53 (62), N. Walsh  (Kildare) 13-18 (57), J. Connolly  (Galway) 6i-38 (56), C. McCarthy  (Cork) 5-39 (54), E. Rea (Limerick)  12-17(53).  Kerry Nominate  ts Stars  MINOR FOOTBALL  U-10 K.O.   Good Shepherd    1-4    Rangers       0-0  U-16 K.O.   Celtics  U-18 K.O  St. Joseph's  The minors had Gaelic Park to  themselves on Sunday and it was a  pleasant day for football. Three  games were played, two finals and  one semi-final. All games were in the  K.O. series and in the U-10 Good  Shepherd demonstrated their strength  in this age group when the completed  the double with a well deserved  victory over the Rangers.  SCORERS: Good Shepherd-M.  Boyle 1-2; B. Scally 0-1; B. Horan  0-1.  Celtics have also completed the  double league and K.O. when they  defeated the Rangers by 9 points  after an entertaining game of football.  SCORERS: Celtics-C. Estey 14;  J. Coleman 0-2j D. McCall 0-2; J.  1-11   Rangers  3-8     Celtics  0-5  1-1  Donnellan 0-1; M. Sullivan 0-1; W.  Donnellan 0-1; Rangers: J. Stack 0-3;  J. Durkin 0-1; J. White 0-1.  St. Joseph's have qualified for the  U-18 K.O. final against the league  champions the Rangers and this game  will be worth making a special effort  to go to the park to watch. It will be  played on Sunday, November 24th.  St. Joseph's had plenty to spare over  Celtics and will provide strong  opposition to the Rangers for K.O.  trophy.  SCORERS:    St.    Josephs-T.  Naughton  1-1; P.J.   Larkin  1-1; P.  Brady 1-0; J. Cahill 04; J. Naughton  0-1; J. Joce 0-1; E. O'Shea 0-1.  Celtics   J. Coleman 1-0; C. Estey 0-1..  MAY WE SUGGEST THE ULTIMATE IN DINING PLEASURE  Donaghy Steak House  UPPER NEW YORK'S FINEST FOOD  ALL CHARGE PLANS MUSIC NIGHTLY  Kerry has produced a galaxy for its  Sports Stars Awards this year and  which will be presented by  well-known Dublin football trainer  Kevin Heffernan at a banquet in the  Mount Brandon Hotel, Tralee, on  Friday, November 22.  Promoted by the local Junior  Chamber, the awards are being  sponsored by The Kerryman Ltd.  This year's winners are:-  Hall of Fame (devoted to Cycling  thisyear)-Gene Mangan of Killorglin.  Youth Award-Tommy Corridan of  Ballybunion (Golf).  Rugby-Moss Keane of Currow.  Weightlifting   Gerald O'Mahony of  Tralee.  Gaelic Football-Michael  O'Sullivan of Kenmare.  Hurling-Tom Lyons of  Abbeydorney.  Cycling-John Mangan of  Killorglin.  Athletics-Tom O'Riordan of  Ardfertand Dublin.  Badminton-Sheila Hannon of  Castleisland.  Golf-Sandy Dunlop of Killarney.   ?  5523 BROADWAY  (near 230 St.)  Open 7 Days  Ample Parking  PHONE  546-9571  548-3377   *ame  Continued from Page 20  Barbara's 1-5, Maynooth 0-6. U-16  F.C. Final-Athy 3-11, Naas 14.  S.F.L Div. 1-Alenwood 1-12,  Ballyteague 04; Carbury 3-12,  Balhangan 0-7; Ellistown 0-10,  Grange 1-6; Monasterevan 2-2, Athy  1-4; Clane 1-8, Moorfield 0-11. Div.  II   Castlemitchel 1-6, St. Kevin's 04;  Kilcullen 2-6, Leixlip 3-2. Div.  Ill-Nurney 1-10, Athgarvan 1-9.  WESTMEATH-U-21 H.C.  Final-Castletown 2-3, Castlepollard  04. Feis Cup Semifinals: The Downs  2-9, Rosemount 0-9; Moate 0-8,  Athlone 1-2. Ballymore Tournament  Final: Tang 3-2, Caulry 2-3.  WEXFORD-J.F.C.-St. Michael's  (Gorey) 2-5, Buffers Alley 14.  M E ATH-Under-21 F.C.  Final-Ballivor 3*6, Skryne 2-5. Feis  Cup (F)-Summerhill 3-4,  Dunshaughlin 1-6; Castletown 0-7,  Kells 04; Kilbride 2-10, Dunderry  1-2. Gael-Linn Cup (F)  S.F.-Moylough 0-8, Cuchulainn's,  Cavan 1-5. Under-17  F.C.-Summerhill 2-8, Navan De La  Salle's 2-3.  ANTRI M-AII County  F.L-Div..iA-St. Johns 4-5, Rossa  1-0; Cargin 6-8, St. Galls 0-3; St.  Teresas 1-3, Rasharkin 1-2; Sarsfields  0-7, Lamh Dearg 0-2. Div. 1A  Reserve-Rossa 1-3, St. Johns 2-3;  Cargin 3-2, St. Galls 2-3. Div.  1B-Dunloy 8-9, Ahoghiil 2-7.  Div.lII   Xir na nOg 1 -6, St. Agnes 2-3.  South Antrim-Supplementary  F.L.-Div. 1-Lisburn 3-2, St.  Malachys 1-5. Div.ll   Riverdale  Rovers w.o. Davitts. Martin  Cup-Mitchells 3-7, Martins 1-2.  ARMAGH-AM County F.L.  Div.l-Ballyhegan 0-1, Clanna Gael  6-7. Div.ll-Killeavy 2-3, Silverbridge  1-7; Clady 2-3, Blackwater Town 3-6;  Eire Og 24, Clonmore 0-6.  DOWN-AII County F.L. Section  A-Briansford 0-10, Rostrevor 1-3;  Annaclone 0-3, Kilclief 1-2;  Loughinisland 2-11, Tullylish 1-6;  Leitrim 2-5, Burren 2-0. Section  B-Bredagh 0-5, Mayobridge 1-1;  Kilcoo 1-1, Saval 0-0 (Abandoned);  Bright 0-3, Glenn 34; Ballymartin  1-8, Drumaness 2-4; Castlewellan  2-12, Attical 0-5.  FERMANAGH-S.F.L. Div.l  Final-Tempo 1-6,Teemore 0-5.  TYRONE-St. Enda Cup Semi-final  (S.F.)-Augher 3-11, Eoghan Roe  O'Neil's 3-1. Feis Shield   Killeshill  2-5,Brackaville1-7.  LIMERICK-S.F.C.-Croom 0-12,  Patrickswell 0-4. J.C.  Final-City-Monalee 44, Treaty  Sarsfields 2-5.  CHALLENGE GAME  CORK-Nemo Rangers 2-6, U.C.D.  1-9.  CAMOGIE GAME  NAAS-Leinster Club C.  semi-final-Austin Stacks (Dublin)  6-7, Prosperous (Kildare) 2-0.  CORK-Munster Inter Club C.  ' semi-final-U.C.C. 54, Ballyagran  t(Limerick) 0-1. -   .   ,     -,  -*   *  
        