OCTOBER 31, 1992  THE IRISH PEOPI    PAGE 11  PRONUNCIATION REVIEW  Pronounce an  s  near  a   *o  or  u   like me American sound, with lips relaxed.  This is the broad  s  sound. Do not tense  the lips as in the English sound. Practice on:  si s6, su, saor (say*r), saoi (see),  samhradh (SOU-ruh), saibhir (SEYE-vir),  sac (sank), sabhail (suh-VWAW*-il), slat  (slaht), smal (smaw*l), smaoineamh  (SMWEEN-uhv), smuta (SMUT-uh), snas  (snahs),sp6rt(spohrt),Sp inn(SPAW*-in),  spraoi (spree), stad (stahd), strapa (STRAH-  puh), str6 (stroh).  Pronounce an Irish  s  as (sh) when it  is next to an  e  or an  i , and also when   sc ,  si ,  sn , and  st  are next to the  e   or  i . Examples:s6, sf, sean (shan), seift  (sheft), sin, sceal (shkay*l), slf (shlee),  sneachta (SHNAHK*-tuh), stfl (SHTEEL),  leisce (LESH-ke), uaisle (WISH-le),  misniuil (mish-NYOO-il), 6isteacht  (AY*SH-tyahk*t).  If the combinations  sm ,  sp ,  sr ,  or  str  are next to  e  or  i , pronounce  the  s  as (s), the broad sound described  above. Memorize these examples: smig  (smig), chin; spgir (spay*r), sky; srian  (SREE-uhn), bridle; strfoc (streek), streak,  stripe.   is  is an exception, too. Pronounce it  (is), never (ish) or (iz). Irish has no (z)  sound.  GRAMMAR  In the future tense, the saorbhriathar  (say*r-VREE-huhr) or free form expresses  ideas such as  It will be put on the table  or   Someone will put it on the table . In Irish,  diis is:  Cuirfear ar an mbord 6 (KIR-fuhr er un  MOHRD ay*). Note that the V is  pronounced (0 here. In other future forms,  you pronounce it (h), as in  Cuirfidh m    (KIR-hee may*) ar an mbord 6:; I will place  it on the table.  The rest of the saorbhriathar forms in the  future are:  Nf chuirfear (K*IR-fuhr) ar an mbord 6.  An gcuirfear (un GIR-fulir) ar an mbord   ?  Nach gcuirfear (nach* GIR-fuhr) ar an  mbord 6?   Ni aspirates here,and  an  and  nach   eclipse.  For a two-syllabled second-conjunction  verb, such as  ceannaigh  (KAN-ee), buy,  the future forms are:  Ceann6far 6 (kan-OH-fuhr ay*), it will be  bought.  Nf cheann6far 6 (nee hyan-OH-fuhr ay*),  it will not be bought.  An gceann6far 61 (un gyan-OH-fuhr ay*),  will it be bought?  Nach gceann6far 6? (nahk* gyan-OH-fuhr  ay*), won't someone buy it?  Others from this group:  Oscl6far 6 (ohsk-LOH-fuhray*), someone  will open it.  Cosn6far 6 (kuhs-NOH-fuhr ay*), it will be  defended.  Freag6far 6 (frag-ROH-fulir ay*), someone  will answer it.  Baileofar 6 (balil-YOH-fuhray*), someone  will collect it.  Inseofar d6 6 (in-SHOH-fulir doh ay*), it  will be told to him.  Notice that an extra  e  is inserted  sometimes. This makes spelling consistent  so diat you know whether a letter gets its  broad or slender sound. For example,  without the V to help, you would not know  whether  insofar  was (in-SOH-fuhr)or(in-  SHOH-fulir).  DRILL  With die examples:  An gcuirfear an mala sa charr? (un  GIR-fuhr un MAW*-lali suli K* AHR), Will  the bag be put into the car? Nf chuirfear an  mala sa charr, The bag wont be put into  the car. Nach gcuirfear an mala sa charr?  Cuirfear an mala sa charr.  Go through progressive drills with  diese word groups:  Bris (brish), break; an cupan ar an urlar,  the cup on die floor.  Feic (fek), see; an cailfn sin amarach  (uh-MAW*-rahk*), that girl tomorrow.  P6s (pons), marry; Sean le Sfle (SI DEE-  lull).  Crfochnaigh (KRJtE-uhk*-nee), finish;  an obair seo, diis work.  Mfnigh (MEEN-ee), explain; an fhadhb  (eyeb), the problem.  Key: An mbrisfear an cupan ar an urlar?  Nf bhrisfear . Nach mbrisfear    ? Brisfear .  An bhfeicfear (VHK-fuhr) ? Nf  fheicfear (nee H-fuhr)  .  Nach  bhfeicfear ? Feicfear .  An gcriochnofar (greek*-NOH-fuhr)     ? Nf chrfochn6far . Nach  gcrfochn6far ? Crfochnofar -.  An mfneofar ? Nf mhfneofar  (veen-YOH-fuhr) . Nach mfneofar     ? Mfneofar .  COMHRA (KOH-raw*)  (Success appears imminent, as the  modified aerial is emplaced.)  Blathnaid (BLAW*-nid): Cuirfear an  poll trfd an doras go luath (KIR-fuhr un poul  treed un DUH-ruhs goh LOO-uli). The hole  will he put through the door soon.  Pol (pohl): Ta s6 criochnaithe anois  (KREli-uhk*-nuli-he uh-NISH). It's  finished now. Tabhair doin :ui tsreang  mhiotail(r(X)-irduhmuntrangVI-til),m lt;ls  6 do thoil 6 (MAW* shay* dull HDL ay*).  Give me the metal wire, please.  Blathnaid: Seodhuit, a Ph6il (shuh git,  uh FOl I-i). Saigh amach f trf pholl an dorais  (SAW*-ee uh-MAHK* ee tree foul un  DlJII-rish). Here it is, Paul. Stick it out  through the door-hole.  Pol: Anois, ta orainn     an tsreang a  ChlOChadh     ar thaobh an thoirgnimh seo  (uh-NISH, taw* OH-rin un trang uh  K*ROIIK*-uh er HAY*V un IR-gi-niv  shuh). Now, we have to hang the wire on  the side of this building.  Blathnaid: Bufochas le Dia. Craolfar  (KRA Y*I  gt;-fuhr) ciar alanm anocht (klaw*r  AW*-lin uh-NOIIK*T). Thank heaven. A  beautifulprogramwillhe broadcast tonight.  1w lt;tt7ryfirv/tmytY   The Curse of Cromwell  The Wexford Massacre  In August 1649, Oliver  Cromwell, the new head of the  English Commonwealth, arrived in  Ireland with a large army. His main  objects were to bring the country  under the complete subjugation of  the English Parliament, to confiscate  and redistribute land under the  Adventurers Act of 1642, and to seek  retribution for the deaths of  Protestant settlers which were  alleged to have taken place during  the Rising of 1641. The campaign  of genocide planned by this  exemplar of human cruelty is too  terrible to describe, and candid  expression cannot find words  suitable for even everyday circles.  Cromwell advanced swiftly. He  marched north and stormed the town  of Drogheda, where in a general  massacre some 3,500 persons were  put to the sword.  Three months after the coming of  Cromwell, the great Irish general  Owen Roe O' Neill was poisoned and  died at Cloughoughton Castle in  Cavan. This exposed all Ireland to  the English Attila, who coldly told  his soldiers,  Nits will never be lice,   to justify  the  slaughter  of Irish  infants.  After Drogheda, Cromwell turned  and swept southward to Wexford. Two  thousand were butchered there.  Lingard, in his history of England, says:   Wexford was abandoned to the mercy  of the assailants. No distinction was  made between the defenseless  inhabitants and the armed soldiers, nor  could the shrieks and prayers of three  hundred females who had gathered  round the great cross in the marketplace  preserve them from the swords of these  ruthless barbarians.   No more illuminating light could be  thrown upon the extraordinary attitude  of Britain toward Ireland, through all the  centuries, than the sentiments of the  great Englishman Carlyle upon the  coldest-blooded butcher of all the  butchers by whom Ireland has been  afflicted throughout the centuries.   Oliver Cromwell came as a soldier  of God the just, terrible as death,  relentless as doom, doing God's  judgments on the enemies of God... It  was the first King's face that poor  Ireland ever saw, the first friend's face.   Since this was the attitude of the  masses of the English people, there is  no reason for being surprised at the  attitude toward Ireland of the mass of  the British people.  They knelt around the cross divine  Tlie matron and the maid;  They bowed before Redemption's sign,  And fervently they prayed;  Three hundred fair and helpless ones,  Whose crime was this alone-  Their valiant husbands, sires and sons  Had battled for their own.  Had battled bravely, but in vain-  The Saxon won the fight;  The Irish corpses strewed the plain  Where Valour slept with Right.  And now that man of demon guilt  To fated Wexford flew-  The red blood reeking on his hilt,  Of hearts to Erin true.  He found them there-the young, the  old,  The maiden, and the wife;  Their guardians brave in death were  cold  Who dared for them the strife.  They prayed for mercy-God on  high   Before Thy cross they prayed,  And ruthless Cromwell bade them  die  To glut the Saxon blade   Three hundred fell-the stifled prayer  Was quenched in woman's blood;  Nor youth nor age could move to  spare  Erom slaughter's crimson flood.  But nations kept a stern account  Of deeds that tyrants do;  And guiltless blood to Heaven will  mount  And Heaven avenge it, too   SHANNON TRAVEL SERVICE INC.  Aer Ling us to Shannon   Dublin  Tours and Cruises Worldwide  COMPETITIVE FARES  76-11 37th Avenue  Jackson Heights, NY 11372  Bridie McManus      Joe Whelan  (718) 639-0667      (718) 639-7530  The Voice of Irish Republicanism is America   
        