OCTOBER 31,1992  THE IRISH PEOPLE  PAGE 5  ' ff*//**'' r'rrTrmr7  1  m  jj2/ ?m gt;mx  rssssss*.     f7J  ra-rmuf/frtttf/f/fA  '.       gt; V      'SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS*  Irish American Unity Conference  Dear Editor:  Everyone who was fortunate enough to  attend the Irish American Unity Conference  in Costa Mesa, California, last weekend  listened to some of the most prominent  speakers on Irish American issues today.  Speaking on human rights and due process  violations in the north of Ireland were Judge  Andy Somers and Cody McCone. Judge  Somers, a veteran observer of court  proceedings in the north, relayed his  shocking experiences of the lack of due  process in the British justice system. Mr.  McCone, president of the Brehon Law  Society, outlined steps his organization is  taking at the United Nations to help achieve  real justice in the six counties.  Speaking from his own experiences with  the policies of deportation, Gerry McGeogh  gave a stirring address on the personal  tragedy he and his family have suffered.  James Smyth stated his first-hand  experiences of abuse in our justice system.  Speaking on Mr. Smyth's behalf was his  attorney Karen Snell, who outlined efforts  underway to ensure that Mr. Smyth would  not suffer the same fate at Joe Doherty. Dan  Lawton, attorney for the detained Kevin  Artt, highlighted the fate of his client who  is in jail in California also on extradition  charges. Tim Cotton of the Francis  Gildernew Defense Fund, and Mr.  Gildernew himself addressed the  convention. Both outlined the malicious  extradition case the United States  government is proceeding with because of  Mr Gildernew's activism on Irish issues.  Frank Durkan, known for his outstanding  efforts in defending extradition suspects in  this country, received the Pat Finucane  Award. Former congressman Bruce  MorrisonreceivedthePaulO'Dwyer Award  for his herculean efforts for Irish  immigrants, whichresultedin die  Morrison  Vise  program. Assemblyman John Burton  of San Francisco received the Sean  MacBride Award for his sponsorship of the  MacBride Principles campaign in  California. Assemblyman Burton pledged  Bto double his efforts on MacBride to ensure  passage, and to help Mr. Smyth and Mr. Artt  BOSTON THREE  fight extradition. Robert Ballagh of the Irish  National Congress was one keynote speaker  who spoke of his work to preserve articles  two and three of the Irish Constitution. Mr.  Ballagh stressed that if articles two and three  were repealed, only the British government  would have legal claim to represent the  people of the six counties, which just will  not do.  Without exception, the greatest response  was given to the other keynote speaker, Mr.  Ken Livingstone, Labour MP. Mr.  Livingstone spoke on the scope of  involvement by British military intelligence  in the north. Mr. Livingstone has written a  book on the involvement of tlie British in  Uiecampaign of terror againstthe nationalist  population. Mr. Livingstone brought the  convention to its feet, when he challenged  the British government to sue him for  slander for charges made in his book, so he  could prove the scandalous British  involvement in northeast Ireland in a  courtroom.  Sincerely,  Neil G. Flanagan  Costa Mesa, CA  TO the Editor, Irish People  By now you should all know that the  so-called Supreme Court has refused to hear  the appeal of our case brought before it .  This travesty of Justice continues. The  dangerousprecedentestablishedheredenies  tlie protection of the Fourth Amendment of  the Constitution to anyone the government  wishes. In effect, the Bill of Rights is  meaningless. With one stroke, the document  hundreds of thousands of Americans died  to preserve has been cast upon die dung heap  of history. It lasted a little over two hundred  years until Bush and his court destroyed it.  It takes no genius to see that this  country is in mortal danger. Hie forces at  work in the current administration are doing  everything in Uieir power to change this  nation into a sad blend of Hitler's Germany  and Stalin's USSR. Don't listen to their  words, look at their actions. One right after  another, one freedom after another has been  quitely stolen from us. We are at die  threshold at which we cease to be a nation  and become a police state   the national  security state of die world. Their apparatus  is in place at diis minute. If this frightens  you, it should. At this minute, in this prison  I am living the life you will all live in the  future...unless you do something now.  Do what?  First and foremost get out and  vote  Get this corrupt gang out of the White  House as soon as possible. Get everyone  you can out to vote to defeat this tyrant now   I am not the only one on the line. You, your  families and your dependents are all in  danger. No one can profess to be a supporter  of Irish freedom (or American freedom) and  vote for Bush. To do so is a lie.  Second, lake an active interest in  what goes on in this government. Learn  about our case as an example of what can  go wrong. Write to your representatives and  senators to complain about our treatment.  This issue effects your lives, too. Tell them  how you feel. Demand something be done.  Finally, 1 wish to thank everyone  who has expressed their support and  solidarity. It makes all the difference in tlie  world. We will all triumph in this battle     only if we fight VOTE   Richard Johnson   Ravhrook, NY  D'Amato versus Abrams and the Irish Dimension  By now, most New York voters have  received one or more carefully crafted   legislative  bulletins from Senator Al  D'Amato. Recendy he aimed one such  piece of literature at his Irish-American  constituents. In it, New York's junior  Senator proclaimed,  ...he is proud to  support the causes of the Irish both here and  abroad.  The literature was fairly  standard   a blend of half-truths and  misstatements lacking only the disclaimer   For amusement purposes only.  The letter  format addressed the case of Joe Doherty,  the MacBride Fair Employment Principles  and immigration, all of which are related to  a conflict which has commanded little of the  Senator's interest in his twelve years in  CD INVESTORS  CAN YOU AFFORD TO EARN  ONLY 4  A YEAR?  Interest rates are the lowest they've been in decades. You've  probably felt the pinch of falling Certificate of Deposit yields and  declining savings account rates. If your savings aren't working  hard enough, it's time to do something about it.  After paying taxes on your CDs' and savings you could be earning  less than 3  on your money.  YOU SHOULD NOT PAY TAXES ON  MONEY YOU ARE NOT USING.  We can offer you savings programs that yield  more than CDs' and savings accounts and  the interest is tax deferred.  For more information return this coupon to:  Capital Financial Group, Inc.  P.O. Box 11072  Albany, NY 12211  office. In fact, die appeal points to a  troublesome dilemma for tlie Senator He  is faced with die nation's largest ami most  active Irish-American constituency and  Reagan-Bush policies dial ignored or were  indifferent to die Irish conflict and its  victims. As a result, die Irish American  activists have galvanized as never before.  The tension between the  making waves   image the Senator relishes and the  missing  in action  reality of his record is apparent  in the very issues he claims to champion.  Consider  The Senator never batded the White  House or the Republican-controlled Senate  in 1985 when a shameful, retroactive British  extradition treaty was ratified. Nor did he  fight them during Doherty 's 5-year  deportation/asylum struggle that followed.  He setded for last-minute letter writing that  was crafted more for media consumption  than as a serious challenge to State  Department policies.  Since 1984, the Senator who  takes them  on hasco-sponsoredaMacBride Principles  bill that has yet to be given a Congressional  hearing. Senator D' Amato was urged to link  any US contributions to the British-  concocted International Fund for Ireland  (IFI) to the MacBride Principles, but he did  not, and he suddenly became a wallflower  during the 1986 debate. IFTs proven track  record of waste and sectarian spending was  rewarded last month with  20 million,  Senator D'Amato's vote and his silence.  On the other hand, Mr. D'Amato has  missed opportunities to, at the very least,  give visibility to these same  Irish causes.   The annual debate over foreign aid to  various thugs or the trading status of nations  like China are ideal times to run down  Britain's sorry record of human- and civil-  rights violations in Ireland.  During the loan-guarantee debates, he  could have asked the President why he   hondles  Israel for refugee housing but  sanctions IFI taxes being used to line the  pockets of British hotel magnates. When tlie  Cuban exile Orlando  Bosch,  who was  convicted of placing a bomb on an airliner  that killed HO persons, was granted asylum,  why didn' 11V Amato demand that President  Bush give the same consideration to Joe  Doherty, whose case had far more merit?  What impact all this may have on Senator  D'Amato's re-election is anyone's guess.  Although the issues of freedom, democracy  and justice are as important in Ireland as in  the Congo, Nicaragua or China, the scale  of the conflict is small and the merit of the  struggle is often obscured or censored by  the British media managers. The mistakes  alluded to here are, after all, acts of  omission. The Senator has not yet taken to  praising British justice and their generosity  to the Irish, as does Senator Moynihan, who  is viewed more as a surrogate spokesman  for British interests in the US Senate. There  is also the question of how much Senator  D'Amato can be justifiably criticized when  the duties of Dublin's diplomats in  Washington seem to be confined to poetry  parties and shamrock presentations.  As for his opponent, there is not a lot of  evidence of Bob Abrams' positions on the  issues related to Ireland' s conflict except for  his remarks at the Irish American Senate  Forum in August. This is surprising,  considering the Attorney General's early  political career in the Bronx, a veritable  cauldron of Irish and Irish American  activism.  Many were impressed, as was I, with  Senator D'Amato's 1980 visit to the North  of Ireland in spite of the State Department's  directives that he should not do so. But  fame, fortune, and a more effective Jewish  lobby liave shifted tlie Senator's priorities  over die years and somewhat tarnished that   making waves  reputation he portrays in  his mailing. Those concerned with Ireland's  conflict know that real Senate leadership  from New York could be significant and  could have an impact on peace and justice  there. Unfortunately, many of these same  persons supported Senator D'Amato,  expecting a pit bull dog and instead getting  a pussy cat. Michael Cummings  The Voice of Irish Republicanism in America   
        