August 9 - August 15, 2003  The Irish People  Pace S   My Dear,  We're Not a Democracy   By Linda Coleman  Years ago, while channel-surfing the  morning show line up in a vain search for  real news, I ran across an interesting segment in which one of the bubbly blonde  anchor women was interviewing a condescending British lord.  She had lots of questions about the  popularity of the British queen, or lack  thereof. She asked whether or not the  British public liked the queen and asked if  they would prefer she step down in favor of  her son. The stuffy lord deflected most of  the news anchor's questions, educating her -  along with the oh so ignorant U.S. television public - on the line of succession, the  importance of monarchy, and the unlikelihood of Herself getting off the throne anytime soon.  Our plucky blonde anchor kept after  His Lordship, with questions about the  growing popularity of William. Can't they  just pass over Charles, our anchor asked,  since his son is so much more popular?  The lord's eyes went cold and steely,  and the little he had of an upper lip vanished  entirely.   My dear,  he seethed,  We're not a  democracy. We're a monarchy.   See, this is the problem with England  trying to bring democracy to the Six - they  don't know how it's done.  Constitutional   though   it   may   be,  England is still a monarchy in its heart and  soul. England is good at invasion, division  and conquering. They're really good at  building  peace walls  but don't seem to  know much about building bridges. They  haven't gotten the hang of the voting thing  just yet, especially where their occupied  somebody from another planet (or this one)  trying to understand Blair's problem...   Okay, there's this guerilla army, called  the Irish Republican Army, and they've  been on ceasefire since the late twentieth  century. Over the years, they've issued a  series of press releases to the British prime  Constitutional though it may be, England is still a monarchy  in its heart and soul. England is good at invasion, division and  conquering. They're really good at building  peace walls  but  don't seem to know much about building bridges. They haven't  gotten the hang of the voting thing just yet, especially where  their occupied lands are concerned.  lands are concerned. Blair seems to think  that if his favorite candidate isn't likely to  win, he can call off the election.   My dear,  I'd like to say to him,   That's not democracy.   Oddly enough, the mainstream press  missed out on a juicy bit of irony involving  Blair and the democratic process; on May  29, the very day Blair was in Basra congratulating British troops on liberating Iraq  from dictatorship, Irish people from both  sides of the border were protesting in the  streets on what should have been their election day. These days, the media is quick to  criticize Blair's role in Iraq, but is strangely  silent on his stranglehold on Occupied  Ireland, and his absurd claim that the IRA  statement lacks clarity.  Imagine explaining the clarity issue to  minister - that's Tony Blair - reminding him  that there's not a bombing campaign going  on anymore (just in case he didn't notice)  and that they support the peace agreement.  Well, Blair says he needs more clarity. He's  cancelled all elections until he can figure  out what the IRA means when it says thing  like, 'The IRA is committed to supporting  every effort to make conflict a thing of the  past ...'   Ian Paisley and his brethren spent their  vainglorious 12th thinking up even more  pre-conditions to the electoral process, the  latest of which is that the DUP won't join  the Assembly until Sinn Fein disbands   Okay, no one's going to take him seriously,  but lan's latest rant is an astounding  glimpse into the brain of someone who has  never known democracy.   Imagine a U.S.  politician saying,  I won't go back to the  Senate until the Democratic Party disbands.  While some U.S. Republicans  might like the idea of Democrats suddenly  evaporating, we're used to the conflict and  compromise of democratic process and  wouldn't really enjoy living in a one-party  regime where opposition was met with the  tantrum,  No, No, Never, No Surrender    The UUP certainly doesn't understand  the electoral process. Apparently, Trimble's  opposition is going to keep having election  after election until they win, like so many  gamblers compulsively rolling dice in pursuit of the elusive seven.  Elections don't work like a craps game.  Sometimes, your side doesn't win. But  that's okay, there will be another election  after a pre-detcrniined amount of time and  you vote again.  At this writing, it looks like Tony  Blair's about ready lo set an election date.  Maybe you'd like to send him an encouraging note, and explain how the whole thing  works. You know his address - 10 Downing  Street, London, England.  Tell him there are no pre-conditions on  democracy. Democracy belongs to the people and is not something that is offered from  on high as a reward for good behavior, only  to be abruptly taken away if the overseer  deems the people undeserving.  Tell him to sol a date, stick to it, and not  waste this historic opportunity for peace in  the Six. Tell him to drop the lame excuse  about clarity and let the people vote   Man charged with  feud killing  Twenty-three-year-old Stephen  Dowie appeared at Belfast Court on  Saturday 16 July charged with the  murder of Jonathan Stewart in  December 2002 during the loyalist  feud.  Dowie, whose address was given  as c/o Magilligan Prison, was charged  with murdering 22-year-old Stewart at  a house in Manor Street in North  Belfast, two days after Christmas last  year.  Stewart, a nephew of a well  known loyalist, was shot six times by  a masked gunman who forced his way  into the kitchen of the house and singled him out.  Armed members of the PSNI  stood guard in the courthouse during  Dowie appearance.  Dowie was remanded in custody  until 22 August.  He was one of dozens of people  who fled the Six Counties in February,  along with Gina Adair and John  White, after the UDA declared war on  friends and associates of ousted  Shankill UDA boss Johnny Adair.  McNicholl Family  continued from page 3  ed some of the same people who harassed  my grandparents. They were given clearance  in the INS courtroom. They acted like  tourists and took pictures of each other and  with the INS was later spotted wearing an  RUC pin, obviously a memento of their visit  and an affront to the Irish community in  Philadelphia, many whom had to leave  Ireland because of harassment and threats  from the RUC.  My father lived in Northern Ireland during a time of horrendous strife and trouble.  So much has changed since then. Most people who survived this period are going on  with their daily lives, just like my parents  were doing, raising me and my brother and  sister in the only place wc know as home,  the United States. At my father's trial in  Philadelphia, the British Government didn't  request that my father should be extradited  back to Northern Ireland. The organization  that the RUC claims our dad belonged to is  not listed on the Justice's dept's list of terrorist's groups. Why then, and for whose  benefit was it necessary for the Unnoted  States Justice Dept. to come to our home and  break up our family. We demand that our  father be returned to us, he is no terrorist. He  loves the United States. We love our country.  We question now, does our government really care about us and our well being. If  George Bush really cares about us and the  sensitivities of a large Irish American community, he shouldn't be taking sides in this  Irish conflict by throwing an innocent and  law abiding and loving father out of the  country.  WE DEMAND THAT OUR FATHER  BE RETURNED. WE LOVE HIM, WE  MISS HIM AND WE WANT HIM BACK.  
        