The Irish People  Senior UUP member in  electoral corruption probe  BY LAURA FRIEL  The Chief Executive of the Ulster  Unionist Party has been arrested and  questioned by the PSNI in connection  with serious offences within the north's  Electoral Office. Alastair Patterson (57) is  one of three former Electoral Office  employees being questioned in relation to  allegations of forgery, false accounting  and corruption.  All three were arrested last Monday  21 July and taken into PSNI custody in  Omagh, where they were questioned by  detectives.  The alleged offences took place within the Electoral Office between 1996 and  2001 and the investigation centers on  activities in the west. Both former  employees have been released on bail  pending further enquiries.  Alastair Patterson, who took up his  post as Chief Executive of the UUP last  year, first came to prominence in 1981  when he appeared on television screens  through the world as the deputy returning  officer declaring IRA Hunger striker  Bobby Sands as the new MP for  Fermanagh and South Tyrone.  As the UUP's Chief Executive,  Alastair Patterson is currently at the center of the disciplinary moves against the  three UUP MPs who resigned the party  whip. Jeffrey Donaldson, David Burnside  and Martin Smyth quit the whip at  Westminster in protest against David  Trimble's leadership of the party.  As the Chief Executive, Patterson  was due to submit the names of 20 influential party members willing to sit on a  disciplinary committee to decide the fate  of the three dissident MPs. In light of the  Electoral Office allegations, Jeffrey  Donaldson has already questioned  Patterson's role in the disciplinary hearing  within the party.  An earlier move by David Trimble to  oust the three malcontents backfired when  Belfast High Court ruled against its legal-  allegations but the unionist bias which  runs throughout the entire electoral system in the North is more insidious than  one or two unionists allegedly caught with  their fingers in the till,  said Gildernew.  Meanwhile, leading Ulster Unionist  John Taylor has threatened to scupper the  entire Good Friday Agreement if the proposed   Independent   Monitoring   Body   The nationalist electorate will of course be greatly concerned about  these allegations but the unionist bias which runs throughout the entire  electoral system in the North is more insidious than one or two unionists  allegedly caught with their fingers in the till,  said Gildernew.  ity.  The whole procedure of disciplinary  action is already seriously discredited as a  result of the High Court case and I think  that this casts further shadow over the  process,  said Donaldson.  But for nationalists, the question as to  whether Patterson is a fit person to preside  over the internal party discipline of the  UUP is of little concern compared to allegations of electoral corruption and fraud.  Few details have yet emerged. The  second former employee is reported as  being unfit to be interviewed on medical  grounds and is due to return to Omagh  PSNI barracks next month. It is thought  that the alleged offences relate to postal  voting.  Commenting on the arrest of Alastair  Patterson, Sinn Fein MP for Fennanagh  and South Tyrone, Michelle Gildernew,  said that any attempt to manipulate closely contested elections in the west could  have serious implications for the outcome.   The nationalist electorate will of  course be greatly concerned about these  includes a nominee from the Dublin government.  UUP leader David Trimble has championed the establishment of the 1MB and  nationalists have seen its establishment as  another sop by the British government to  rejectionist unionism. But as with other  concessions, as soon as they get their  cake, the unionists want to eat it as well.  With two to the Dublin government's  single nominee, the British government is  set to exercise complete control over the  actions of the 1MB. Furthermore, the 1MB  must report directly to the NIO Secretary  of State, who has ultimate power to decide  to act or ignore the 1MB.  The 1MB is a discriminatory, antidemocratic mechanism designed to place  further burdens on the nationalist electorate exercising their right to democratic  representation. But recent unionist opposition to the 1MB has nothing to do with  this; on the contrary, unionist objection is  based on opposition to even the appearance of a nationalist dimension within the  1MB.  FrDes  continued from page 6  he went back to the academic world to study  history and politics. Gary had, what was it,  nine languages?  Looking back on the life record of both  of them now one wonders whether we have  appreciated enough and been glad enough  about the intellectual brilliance and sheer  quality of men and women whom we have  been privileged to have on our side.  Great people do not ask for reward, they  ask us to listen to them, talk with them, argue  with them, think with them and together with  them work to make a new world which will  be as brilliant and as accomplished as they  are.  And our most hopeful thought is that we  have so many good minds and so many stout  hearts to present to a jaded old world that is  so sorely in need of them.  Interesting how refusal and rejection,  which are meant to destroy us utterly often,  do the opposite, they bring out the best in  people.  When Oliver Kearney was struggling for  fair employment for everybody, his job was  taken off him.  When Gary MacEoin was starting out in  adult life he asked to be allowed to join a religious order. They accepted him for a while,  and then told him, sorry, we do not want you  to stay. Both men went on to become nationally and internationally known for the unique  treasures they were.  People used to say, especially when they  got a bit fed-up with their church, that the  great thing about people with religious ideals  was not that they were always good, because  they often weren't, but that because whether  good or bad, they always managed to give  birth to saints, men and women of integrity  who, whatever happened, would pass on the  idealism to the next generation and in so  doing would save a whole people from  shame. And all our idealistic communities  are like that.  May Gary and Oliver rest in the peace  they earned and may we sec more and more  the results of their work. And happily continue it.  Human Rights Commission broken and in need of fixing  Sinn Fein Chief Negotiator  Martin McGuinness MP on  Wednesday morning led a party delegation  to meet with the Human Rights  Commission. The delegation included  Human Rights spokesperson Bairbre de  Brun and Belfast Councilor Chrissie  McAuley. Speaking after the meeting,  McGuinness said:   The establishment of the Human  Rights Commission was a key component  of the Good Friday Agreement which Sinn  Fein strongly argued for and supported. We  are, therefore, deeply dissatisfied at the  approach of the Human Rights  Commission, particularly in relation to its  approach on fair employment provisions  which could have highly damaging implications for equality as well as the Chief  Commissioner's highly inappropriate  behavior in the Holy Cross case.   Fair employment is a cornerstone of  building a new society. If you cannot even  measure what's wrong in respect of fair  employment how can you possibly hope to  tackle it? Ordinary people will not accept  having the clock turned back to the days  before monitoring of fair employment was  introduced. Nor will they accept a society  in which the rights of little children depend  on the area in which they live or the religion  of their family.   The Chief Commissioner's response  to the Holy Cross case has undermined  gravely public confidence that rights will be  promoted regardless of political background. The resignation of one quarter of  the Commission's membership is a further  cause of deep concern. A Westminster Joint  Committee on Human Rights recently identified serious problems with the  Commission.   Actions that threaten fair employment  monitoring, 50:50 recruitment as recommended by Patten or voting safeguards in  the Assembly will further undermine public  confidence.   The Chief Commissioner has failed to  provide satisfactory answers to the concerns expressed about the way the  Commission has developed under his stewardship. We have sought a meeting with  both governments to discuss these concerns  and the way ahead. We need to look at a  restructuring that will include the composition and appointments, the powers and  resources of the Commission. The Human  Rights Commission is broken. It needs to be  fixed.   We approach this issue on the basis of  wanting the best possible Human Rights  Commission in place to drive forward the  human rights aspects of the Good Friday  Agreement.   In our view, there is a need for the  British government to put in place the  measures required to guarantee the integrity, independence and effectiveness of the  Commission. We will vigorously pursue  this matter with both governments in the  time ahead.   
        