August 9 - August 15, 2003  The Irish People  Paee 3  Official  Statement from  John McNicholl's  family  The following statement was delivered by Sean McNicholl, 18, eldest son of  John McNicholl on behalf of his family.  Issued July 23, 2003 through the  Federation of Irish American Societies of  the Delaware Valley.  I witnessed my father being kidnapped by strange men from our front  door and bundled into an unmarked car. I  ran down the street after the car but could  not catch up to it. I later found out that  these people were representatives of the  United States Government.  I am in high school. I am a citizen of  the United States. I was born and raised in  this neighborhood, in Upper Darby. This is  my home. My friends are here; this is my  country;  my younger brother and sister and my  mother are United States citizens.  Can someone from the Bush  Administration explain what we are to do,  now that they have deported our father?  Where is the justice, in the justice dept of  the US for my family and me?  Who do they expect to help us? Will  the Attorney General send a check every  week to pay our bills - my little sister's  dental bills, for example?  My father provided for my family,  and me, he is a good father. My mother  and my father have lived in this community for many years. My father has lived as  a man of peace showing kindness to and  support for all around him. We don't  understand why our government would  crush our family and leave us so broken.  My brother and sister and I had dreams of  living our lives here in the United States  with the support of both our parents. Now  we have nightmares, my little sister wakes  up screaming, she thinks men will come  back and harm us and take us away.  I was considering joining the US military after this year, my last year in high  school. My younger brother Conall also  was thinking about a military career.  We are Americans; we still cannot  comprehend what has happened to us and  to our dad. We feel so violated, so let  down, so scared and traumatized by the  actions of our government.  Are we left no choice other than  forced exile from our country, the United  States?  We hear Mom crying in her room and  we know she is scared and worried about  dad, and all of us, and what are we all  going to do.  On Thursday morning my mother  called Immigration Deportation Dept, in  Philadelphia, the lady who answered the  phone acted as if they knew nothing about  him. Mom then called Immigration Dept,  in York on Friday morning; they presented  Dad to her in shackles - my dad, who  peaceably went to work every day in  Philadelphia for years and had to renew  his work authorization at the Immigration  Office in Philadelphia every 90 days.  Our dad explained to us the harassment his family suffered at the hands of  the Royal Ulster Constabulary, a police  force, more like a militia, who only protected the interests of the loyalist and  unionist community. The British  Government has since disbanded this  group because of the abuse they leveled at  the nationalist community. They are  known to have colluded with loyalists in  the murder of nationalists and particularly  human rights lawyers. Dad told us how the  RUC would harass his parents by breaking  into their home and entering their bedrooms in the middle of the night at gunpoint. They would utter disparaging  remarks about his elderly mother, my  grandmother, in her nightgown and would  compare her to an old Fenian cow and  other crude remarks.  Dad was a member of the Northern  Ireland Civil Rights Association, an  organization that worked for equality  issues for the Nationalist community.  Aren't civil rights something worth  achieving and defending? The RUC were  intent on framing my father, so they said  he was involved in terrorist activity and  planted weapons where they arrested him.  My father escaped from the prison to  which he was taken, because he knew that,  like so many others in Northern Ireland  back then, they would have imprisoned  him for most of his life for something he  didn't do.  The RUC were invited by the US  Dept of Justice to come to my father's trial  in Philadelphia. Their testimony should  not have been believed. This group includ-  continucd on page 5  Appeal on behalf  of the  McNicholl family  The family needs funds and  they need it quickly. They are  trying to get John back and  know it's a slim chance. They  also have to get the family house  in order for sale, as they can't  afford it without John.  Fundraisers are already  being planned but if you want to  send donations or have friends  who are so motivated they would  be most welcomed,  Checks are to be made out  to:  Philadelphia Family Defense  Fund  7 South Cedar Lane  Upper Darby, Pa. 19082  Maghaberry fails to protect  republican prisoner  New Lodge man John O'Hagan has  already spent 18 months on remand - effectively a three-year sentence - after he was  arrested in April 2002 following the controversial raid on Castlereagh PSNI barracks and charged with possession of documents useful to terrorists. He has been  denied bail three times by the High Court  in Belfast and is awaiting trial in  Maghaberry prison. Legal observers say  they believe his case may not be heard until  Easter 2004 at the earliest.  Meanwhile, Maghaberry is ready to  explode as a result of the NIO's policy of  forced integration between unionists and  republicans.  The practice has already resulted in  prisoners connected to the so-called  Continuity and Real IRA groupings taking  part in a no-wash protest.  And just when it appeared things  couldn't get much worse for John O'Hagan.  prison officials at Maghaberry decided to  house him in a wing alongside several  active members of the UDA, including loyalist thugs Andre and Ihab Shoukri, and Mo  Courtney.  O'Hagan is the only republican to be  housed in the wing.  Needless to say, this has already led to  a number of confrontations between  O'Hagan and his loyalist paramilitary  neighbors - the most recent of which has  spurred allegations that prison officers are  endangering his safety.  There was an altercation between  O'Hagan and Ihab Shoukri on Friday 11  July. It began when the two men exchanged  words, which then escalated into a fistfight  in full view of prison security cameras.  Although prison officers watched the  incident intensify from a verbal exchange  into a physical confrontation, they did not  intervene for a full six minutes, prompting  O'Hagan's lawyer to lodge his concerns in  a letter to the governor of Maghaberry.   The safety of prisoners should be of  primary importance to all of those involved  in the prison administration,  said the  solicitor.  Clearly, there arc vciy serious  questions to be asked as to why this incident was incurred against my client. The  ultimate responsibility lies with the governor.   According to a document obtained by  a Belfast based newspaper, prison officers  suspected that a light between both men  was imminent but took no action before the  disagreement erupted into violence.  Shoukri, who has a former conviction  for extortion, is currently in jail alongside  his colleague Mo Courtney, charged with  offences relating to the killing of fellow  loyalist Alan McCullough.  Sinn Fein's spokesperson for prisoners, Councilor Michael Browne, has called  on the NIO for the immediate introduction  of segregation, calling it  the only sensible  policy.   The treatment of prisoners like John  O'Hagan begs the question: what do the  NIO hope to achieve by their current policy of forced integration?  he asked.   The attack on John O'Hagan took  place a fortnight ago. Now there is available evidence to show that the attack developed under the eye of the prison authorities. Is it really the NIO's intention to  increase instability and endanger the safety  of individuals within the prison? On the  basis of this evidence, that's the only conclusion possible.   ,.  .     
        