Paee 12  The Irish People  August 9 - August 15, 2003  Taoiseach's Dail mandate is  to demand autumn election  Cavan patriot remembered in Killnaleck  Speaking in Killnaleck. Co  Cavan, at the unveiling of a monument to IRA Captain Edward  Boylan, who was killed in the Civil  War, Sinn Fein TD Caoimhghin  O'Caolain said the Taoiseach's clear  mandate from the Dail was to  demand of Tony Blair that the postponed Assembly elections be held  in the autumn.  The Cavan/Monaghan TD said people did  not vote for Direct Rule when they voted for the  Agreement and he called on the Taoiseach to  convene a special summit with the British  Prime Minister.  Captain Edward Boylan died, aged 21, on  25 July 1922 after being fatally wounded in the  course of an escape attempt from Cavan  Military Barracks. Members of the Boylan family participated in Sunday's well-attended commemoration. Recalling the era in which he died,  i Caolain said:  The tragedy of the Civil War in  which Edward Boylan died was brought about  primarily because the British government was  determined to impose its will and retain its grip  on Ireland. It saw dial it could do so, in the  words of Winston Churchill  with an economy  of British lives  by partitioning Ireland.   We owe to republicans like Edward  Boylan the degree of freedom we have today.  They drove the British forces from 26 Counties.  They were denounced in their day by clerics  and 'constitutional' politicians as 'gunmen and  terrorists'. Many still refuse to recognize the  reality that Irish independence had to be fought  for, not because we are a warlike people, but  because repeated efforts by peaceful means  were thwarted by British political intransigence  and coercion.   This week marks another significant  anniversary' - the 200th anniversary of Robert  Emmet's Rising in Dublin. Emmet asked thai  his epitaph not be written until Ireland takes her  place among the nations of the earth. It is too  early yet to write that epitaph.   Republicans are determined lo see  Emmet's epitaph written in our time, to see a  32-County republic taking ils proud place  among the nations.   The current impasse in the peace process  is totally unacceptable to republicans. It is totally unacceptable also to the vast majority of people on this island.   When  the people voted for the Good  Captain Ibuxmb Philip Boylon I.R.A. 1901 - 22  Friday Agreement they did not vote for Direct  Rule from Westminster. Yet that is what we  have now - Direct Rule and political drill with  the institutions so painstakingly constructed  now in suspension at the behest of anti-  Agreement unionism.   A British government that falser) boasts  that it is a champion of freedom on the international stage has twice cancelled democratic  elections in Ireland and four times suspended  the  institutions  established  under the  Good  1 riday Agreement.   In May, the entire Dail called for the postponed elections to be rescheduled for this  autumn. The autumn is rapidly approaching yet  there is no sign that the British government is  preparing lo hold elections.   I call on the taoiseach Bertie Ahern to  arrange a special summit meeting with British  Prime Minister Tony Blair to discuss not  whether, but when this autumn the elections  will be held. The Taoiseach's mandate from the  continued on page 13  Human Rights  continued from page 10  applied for to the NIO:  It in effect gives  the government direct control over what  projects should be carried forward and the  shape in which they are carried forward.   An example of the latter point was  submitted as evidence. A letter in May  2002 was sent from an employee in the  NIO to the Commission regarding applications for funding for investigations. It read:   Ministers are content, in principle, to provide the funding for the investigations into  the inquest system and controversial  deaths. However, they have a genuine concern that this work must not prejudice  future legal proceedings or cut across work  being done by others, including the international judge... Release of the   30,000 associated with these investigations is therefore  conditional upon your supplying further  particulars and agreeing with us in advance  the terms of reference for these reviews so  that we can satisfy Ministers that no such  problems could arise.   Bill of Rights undermined  Other organizations had listed the  problems with the Bill of Rights process.  Sinn Fein, in its submission, stated that the  Commission's consultation document   actually diluted specific guarantees of the  Good Friday Agreement in relation to  equality and parity of esteem. The Human  Rights Commission also promoted a more  minimal approach to the interpretation of  the Framework Convention for the protection of national minorities.   In his submission, Professor Chris  McCrudden, Chair of Human Rights at  Lincoln College, Oxford, outlined the core  problems with the Bill of Rights process,  summing up:  There is now, however, a  significant degree of consensus, that the  NIHRC's document is not the way forward.  This is not surprising. The document is the  product of a radically divided NIHRC...  Documents of the kind that the  Commission was mandated to produce  need to be visionary, technically authoritative, politically astute and comprehensive.  The Commission's document is unfortunately none of these. In large measure, the  chorus of criticism to which the document  has been subjected is justified. It is sloppy,  rushed, internally inconsistent, technically  unconvincing and lacking any coherent  vision.   He also outlined some of the other core  problems with the Bill of Rights, namely:  - Failure to consider the relationship  between the Bill of Rights proposal and  existing equality legislation  - No clarity about the potential legal  status of such a Bill  - The issue of the protection of  Minorities:  The NIHRC document, over  the dissent of some members, apparently,  has interpreted the Convention protection  of 'minorities' as encompassing protection  of communities of identity more generally  and views this protection as therefore  equally applicable to majority identity  communities.   - No attempt to define what the conflict in the North had been about: The  Commission has not attempted to define   the particular circumstances of Northern  Ireland .  - The consultation documents does not  adequately address the relationship  between equality, identity and socio-economic rights.  In order to address the problems  around the Bill of Rights, Professor Mc  Crudden makes a recommendation that was  later reflected in the recommendations  from the Joint Committee:   A fresh start is necessary. It seems  unlikely that the Commission will be able  to achieve what is necessary. The  Commission should recognize that fact...  an alternative process for progressing the  project must be devised... the bare bones of  such a process are clear: the establishment  of a forum outside the Commission, with  participation from the Northern Ireland  political parties and civil society, under an  independent chair, advised by an expert  secretariat. The results of any consensus  that emerged over time would then be presented by the NIHRC to the Secretary of  State as its advice as envisaged by the  Belfast Agreement.   Independence and representativeness  A major issue for the Joint Committee  and a number of organizations that gave  evidence was the representativeness of the  Commission and its independence. Sinn  Fein, in its submission, said:  The HRC is  unrepresentative in composition of wider  society and is therefore unbalanced in  terms of community background, gender  and religious balance. Presently the composition is skewed towards a majority of  those from a unionist background, a matter  further compounded by the recent appointment of a unionist politician.'  The issue of representation and  appointment of Commissioners has highlighted the lack of independence of the  NIO appointments procedure and compounded by the fact that a criterion for  appointment does not include the necessity  to have any human rights knowledge or  experience. An example of the lack of representativeness occurred with the resignation of Angela Hegarty from the  Commission. After a long delay, one  Catholic female commissioner was  replaced by one Protestant female,  one  unionist politician, one male Catholic and  Patrick YU from the Northern Ireland  Committee for Ethnic Minorities, who later  resigned his post.  For nationalists, the appointment of  the UUP's Chris Mc Gimpsey was a clear  signal that any vestige of independence of  the Commission had been wiped away.  Later evidence has come to light to prove  that that has been the case.  It is too early to know how the Human  Rights Commission will respond to the recommendations from the Joint Committee,  but one thing is certain. Unless drastic  action is taken to remedy the situation to  ensure that the Commission fulfils the letter and spirit of the Good Friday  Agreement then we will have to stand by  and watch another pillar of the Agreement  collapse in on itself because of political  interference, lack of championship of  human rights and the failure to honestly  address the issues of the conflict and  inequalities and human rights abuses.  
        